[music] We come into the new year
prepared for some volatility.
>> Maybe it's time to rebalance a bit.
>> We're already seeing some rotation.
>> What the market doesn't understand is
the president's willingness to take
risk.
>> We get more macro risk like this, it's
going [music] to be hard to keep risk
priced where it is.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience, worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, within 1% of record highs,
global equity markets shaking off
heightened geopolitical risk as Samsung
and TSMC are powering [music] a big
rally in Asian stocks. The Nvidia boss
is talking up demand for a new
generation of chips. Vera Rubin is in
full production.
>> Well, the whole band is back together.
Welcome back, John. You know, honestly,
to me, was there a [music] signal with
the alligator skin suit coming out to
the stage? It wasn't just the regular
leather jacket. It was the alligator
jacket uh that we got from Jensen Wong.
To understand what Ver Rubin was
requires some sort of astrophysics in
terms of 88 cores and exactly what it
does, but the fact that it will be
unleashed at the end of 2026 really
highlights how much they are expediting
their schedule to try to continue the
dominance over the field.
>> I won't bother trying to explain the
technical details. I'll just point to
the price action. The stock is higher in
the [music] pre-market by 0.6% but the
fireworks are elsewhere. They're in
Asia. Look at Taiwan semi. Look at
Samsung electronics since the [music]
start of the year. The Cosby another
all-time high.
>> Yeah. This feeling that really the
innovation is [music] coming from there
with consumer products in particular.
And Samsung interestingly using Google's
Gemini [music] in particular with some
of its artificial intelligence. The the
sort of wars are establishing who is
going to be the potential winner and
what [music] the next node of artificial
intelligence in the way we consume it
really will look like. It really is a
tech story that's interating the the
equity market worldwide from the story
we talked about all weekend, which
[music] is the heightened geopolitical
risk and the mess that's emerging over
Venezuela.
>> That's right. And we do see right now
Venezuela is in this period of
transition. Yesterday, Maduro's former
VP is now running the country, Deli
Rodriguez, and you're hearing that from
the business community and basically
from the administration, they view this
as per [music] someone who is pragmatic
that they can work with. Interesting
comments yesterday from the president
that matter to the business community
has to do with the oil sector. He thinks
it can take less than 18 months. [music]
Now, I haven't spoken to anyone in this
industry who thinks it could be that
quickly to get Venezuela out to the
productions [music] they had in the '90s
and north of 3 million barrels a day.
>> If you break it, you own it. They own it
now. It was already broken. There's a
lot of fixing to do in that country.
>> Well, and there's a real lack of
understanding of what exactly it will
take. [music] There was a 2-hour
briefing yesterday with members from the
House and Senate uh in Capitol Hill. We
don't have a clear sense of the [music]
answers to that. So now the question is
how closely is the United States working
with the vice president now the
president uh Deli Rodriguez and [music]
what's the ultimate goal? What does it
mean to run a country when you don't
have troops on the ground?
>> Well, speaking of goals, let's talk
about the agenda and not the [music]
agenda down in Venezuela. The agenda
down in Washington DC, the goals of this
Republican party going into the midterms
as we shift [music] towards
affordability.
>> Absolutely. Today at 10 a.m. the
president will be having this retreat.
[music] He'll be greeting um House
Republicans. And you would think today
was going to be about what you just
discussed, affordability, going into a
huge election year, midterm elections
this November. But [music] first,
there's a lot of questions Republicans,
whether they're saying it out in the
open or behind the scenes [music] about
what is taking place in Venezuela. They
do want to know whether or not this
president is serious [music] about
potentially at some point putting boots
on the ground.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. The price action pretty
muted so far this morning. Equities
going nowhere on the S&P 500. It's a
slightly negative. We're down about
0.03%. [music]
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Julian Emanuel of Everori as stocks look
for a third day of gains. Solomon Desai
of Franklin Templeton fixed income on
the risk of stackflation and frankly of
HSBC as Nvidia rolls out its next
generation of AI chips. We begin this
hour with stocks within 1% of alltime
highs. Julian Emanuel of Everor setting
a 7750 price target for the S&P by year
end. expecting more of everything that
drove 25. More AI, more stimulus, more
earnings growth, more volatility. Julian
joins us now for more. Julian, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you, sir. Welcome to the
program. Everything that worked last
year is going to keep on working. The
temptation to choose something new, find
that new thing. Why aren't you embracing
it?
>> So, the issue here is, and again, this
concept of concentration risk. If you go
back in to the beginning of the century
when the top 10 stocks were 25% of the
of the weight in the S&P 500, there was
a thought that could not be exceeded.
We're now at 40%. And frankly, again, if
you think about concentration risk, you
look at a market like Korea where in the
Cosby, you've got two stocks that
account for 45%. Uh so so the point is
the math doesn't work for these stocks
not to market perform or outperform. uh
the but the the the truth is is that the
the capital market cycle has yet to
fully play out and the beneficiary of a
robust capital market cycle time and
time again are the stocks that led you
into the cycle.
>> So for anyone that comes on the program
later on this morning saying dive into
what's happening in Asia, what's
developing in South Korea, you're saying
take a step back, resist. No, basically
what what we're saying is is that you
know there should be a discomfort around
the fact that the market is is really
clustering in this theme. But that
discomfort as we saw earlier uh at the
end of last last year with the
discomfort around the one marquee name
that has taken on a great deal of debt
to finance capex. the majority of these
companies have, you know, very very
robust cash flow and so therefore you're
going to have this sort of virtuous
cycle of earnings continue to be driven
by these names.
>> Is the bet right now just to bet on the
biggest tech companies in both regions,
both the US and China, betting that they
can consolidate their dominance going
forward regardless of whether the US or
China wins.
It it does come down to that to a great
degree and and you know we get asked all
the time again should we rotate to other
sectors? We think there'll be plenty of
opportunity to do it opportunistically.
There's going to be a continued skirmish
around health care uh towards the end of
this month. Obviously uh in fact with
the the one big beautiful bill uh tax
benefits starting to kick in uh later
this quarter. We think there's an
opportunity for consumers uh you know
beaten down consumer names uh to to
rally but you step away and the bull
market has been led by these names and
these themes and we think it just has
further to run.
>> There might be some people who read
what's going on in the news and then
look at markets and say that everybody's
just going la we're not going to listen
to anything that could potentially be
gamechanging. Is it just bet on what you
know and that when you don't know so
much you just ignore it? Well, [snorts]
I I think again part of of of the
rationale around AI is you're still
betting on something that you don't
fully know. Okay. And for us the what we
think is going to happen in 2026 is
you're going to go from the inflection
year uh 2025 for AI adoption to the year
where it accelerates when corporate you
know global corporates realize that if
they don't find ways to drive revenues
and cut costs through using AI they will
be at a competitive disadvantage.
>> When Lisa says things going on in the
news she means Venezuela. And you
actually write in your note that you
think if anything Venezuela increases
the chances of an AI bubble. Why is
that?
>> So think about it a confluence of
events. First of all, we found out at uh
a week and a half ago that the economy's
last reading was actually stronger than
expected. Uh thinking about the stimulus
that's ahead, it sets up more economic
upside in the US. In fact, our team just
took its 2026 forecast up to 2.5%. Uh,
from a Fed perspective, we actually
think there won't be two cuts. There'll
be three, possibly more.
>> How do you have both? growing economy,
fiscal stimulus, potentially higher
inflation, and then you're saying three
Federal Reserve cuts
>> because you have a political backdrop
where the impetus is to keep the the
consumer moving forward as we get to the
midterm elections. Now, on Venezuela,
basically the issue here is long-term,
it's likely a moderating influence for
oil prices. And if you think about oil
prices staying, you know, flat for
longer, that's bullish for longdated
bonds.
>> Let's park Venezuela just for a moment.
Your view on the Federal Reserve
becoming increasingly politicized. In
the last 24 hours, we've had a series of
guests come on the program and talked
about the unintended consequences of
pushing for lower interest rates at the
Federal Reserve, galvanizing the other
members of the committee to push back
against the push for lower interest
rates. Why are you taking the other side
of that?
essentially because a couple things is
is is that for the most part even though
the the economy is strong there's still
this dichotomy between what the labor
market actually looks like uh you know
obviously a lot of that has to do with
immigration policy etc. But the fact of
the matter is is that politically and
sort of psychologically
to see monthly job gains closer to zero
than closer to a 100,000
uh going forward will be something that
you know given the fact and we also
think that that the tariff uh flow
through has reasonably fully flown
flowed through and so you know a a
moderate jobs environment
and a lower inflation trajectory just
continue to drive the ability to cut
rates.
>> Let's finish by pushing that through the
equity market. Consumer discretionary
does it turn things around?
>> We we do think so. And again, our sector
preferences, consumer discretionary,
communication services, infoch, the
subtext is all of them have large
exposure to AI. But in this algorithmic
trading world, what's good for the
consumer is going to flow through and be
good for AI names and you know boost
that sector.
>> Jillian, we hope you're right. You're
going to be sticking with us. Jillian
Manny there of Evercore. I would say
controversial call on this Federal
Reserve. A lot of conflict there. Some
tension on the committee already about
the push for lower interest rates and
some on the committee I imagine who feel
like they need to defend the
independence of the institution.
>> You've seen right now uh inflation run
above 2% for more than 5 years. You have
an increasing number of Fed members who
come out and said, "We are increasingly
concerned about price stability and the
tax that this is on particularly lower
income Americans." Definitely a question
around that and definitely a question
about how sanguin the reaction would be
in markets if this was a truly
politicized Fed that would push frontend
rates lower even at the expense of
long-term inflation. Eddie Ardeni made
the point yesterday that actually
Trump's pressure on who potentially
whoever is going to be the next Federal
Reserve chair is actually going to make
the other committee members galvanized
to speak out against that Fed chair
which in the end potentially will make a
more independent Federal Reserve.
>> And we still don't know who that next
Fed chair is actually going to be
because we're still waiting. This
morning at least bond yields are higher
by let's call it two basis points. The
tenure of 418 68. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara Arnard for more. Hey
Yahara. Good morning, John. [music]
Delsey Rodriguez is officially the
acting president of Venezuela. Speaking
after being sworn in, Rodriguez telling
the National [music] Assembly she did so
with pain because of the suffering
caused by quote illegitimate military
aggression. [music]
Rodriguez vowing to guarantee the peace,
economic, and social tranquility of the
people of Venezuela. Meanwhile,
President Donald Trump says he wants US
oil companies to play a key role in
rebuilding Venezuela. The [music]
president saying oil majors could be up
and running in the country in less than
18 months. And the US government could
subsidize their efforts. Sources [music]
telling us here at Bloomberg that energy
secretary Chris Wright plans to speak
with oil executives in Miami this week.
And Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong announcing
new AI models and tools designed to
speed up the development of autonomous
vehicles. The company is aiming to
create vehicles that can [music] think
their way out of unexpected situations
such as a traffic light outage. Tune in
to Bloomberg Tech at 1 p.m. Eastern for
interviews [music] with the CEOs of
Nvidia and Seammens. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Looking forward to
[music] that. Catching up with Ed Lllo a
little bit later this morning. Up next
on the program, taking control of
Venezuela.
>> What the president said is true. The
United States of America is running
Venezuela. We live in a world in the
real world that is governed by
strength, that is governed by force,
that is governed by power. A
conversation up next with Bloomberg's
Laura Davidson live from New York City
this morning. [music] Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> within 0.5% of alltime highs on the S&P
500 just about unchanged so far this
morning on the NASDAQ positive by let's
call it a tenth of 1% a lot of
bullishness out there we remain
aggressively risk on that came from Max
Kentner of HSBC BC. Here's one from Mike
Wilson and Morgan Stanley Brammo. The
surprise for 26 could be that we see
multiple expansion for the median stock
[music] in addition to strong earnings.
>> People are betting on fiscal stimulus.
They're betting also on monetary
stimulus and they're betting on the AI
explosion continuing. A question of how
much you can ignore the macro and
continue to [music] bet on these micro
stories with the overlay of the promise
of government support.
>> So much of this conversation is
insulating this equity market from this
under Sylvanas this morning taking
control of Venezuela.
what the president said is true. The
United States of America is running
Venezuela. We set the terms and
conditions. We have a complete embargo
on all of their oil and their ability to
do commerce. So for them to do commerce,
they need our permission. For them to be
able to run an economy, they need our
permission. So the United States is in
charge. So here's the latest this
morning. President Donald Trump
insisting the US is not at war with
Venezuela as the country swears in a new
government. Trump telling NBC News, the
US may subsidize all companies efforts
to rebuild Venezuela's infrastructure in
a project that could take 18 months.
Blindberg's Laura Davidson joins us now
from Washington with more. Laura, I
don't think it's hyperbole for me to ask
you who's next because listening to
Steven Miller in his conversation with
CNN, there's a real sense that there
might be another nation in the minds of
the president.
>> Yes. this uh this plan really uh of
terms of what happens next with
Venezuela is really in the minds of the
president and his top White House
officials and doesn't really seem to
have buyin yet from uh both the
Venezuelan people Rodriguez in Venezuela
as well as the oil companies which Trump
keeps talking about as being a key part
of this plan that the uh that US
companies uh you know Exxon Chevron uh
Konico Phillips will go into the country
invest billions of dollars to get uh the
comp the country's infrastructure
rebuilt which has really uh fallen into
disrepair in several years uh But we've
really not heard much at at all from the
oil companies. They have not, you know,
said that they are on board with this
plan. We've heard that Chris Wright, the
energy secretary, says he's going to
talk with them this week. But it seems
like the administration moved far faster
than any other party in this in this
whole operation.
>> There is a lot of rot and corruption in
that country, Laura. That doesn't change
with Maduro's exit. How different is the
new bus to the old bus?
>> That really remains to be seen. Uh Delta
Rodriguez has been a longtime uh uh
acolyte of Maduro. she has been very
loyal to him throughout the years though
she is much more of a technocrat than an
ideologue. Uh so it's possible and we
started to see signs of that in really
in the just the past 24 36 hours that
she is willing to work with the US
administration. She put out uh you know
sort of a proposal for a for a
cooperative uh arrangement here and it's
possible that we could see a partnership
going forward but this is all very
tenuous at the moment.
>> Laura Davidson down in Washington DC.
Laura, thank you. Amarie, we've talked a
little bit about this. The absence of
resistance over the weekend does not
mean that you might not see that
resistance in the weeks and months to
come.
>> No. And even last night, there actually
was a lot of gunfire outside the palace
yesterday and there was concerns and
rumors on the ground of this potential
coup. But when it comes to Deli
Rodriguez, to Laura's point, this is
someone who over the weekend was very
defiant, calling what happened barbaric
and then quickly put out an olive
branch. And for the oil sector, they
think this is someone potentially they
could work with. She has been the
country's energy minister. She has
showed up to OPEC meetings. She knows
this industry and clearly this
administration thinks at the minimum
this is someone that's pragmatic. It's
what Robert said yesterday when it comes
to regime chain, not big R, little R.
>> Well, let's focus on the energy
infrastructure and the energy sector.
That's a pretty aggressive timeline, 18
months based on what we've heard
elsewhere.
>> Yeah, it's a pretty aggressive timeline
and a pretty aggressive pledge that
potentially the US government could back
some of these uh oil companies and give
them the money to do some of these
projects. A lot of questions still
swirling. Also a question about how on
board oil companies are with this.
Unclear how much they've talked with
them. Chevron saying that they had no
advanced knowledge of this whatsoever.
So a lot of questions still remaining
including US companies that still are
owed billions of dollars for the assets
that were taken back to when the when
the entire industry was nationalized a
couple of decades ago.
>> Maybe they weren't given explicit know
explicit knowledge of what was going to
happen. But the Wall Street Journal does
say that Trump basically said to them
something is coming. And you have seen
the buildup. And on page 15 of their
national security document, it said
exactly what they want to do in this
hemisphere. But to your point, the oil
companies that potentially may not want
to go in, the Exxon Mobile, Kico
Phillips, got absolutely burned and they
have not got their money back from when
they were kicked out of the country. So
they need to know that the US government
is going to be behind them if they
decide to take this venture.
>> The key here is crude WTI 5849, Brent
Crude at 6199. We've got Julian Emanuel
Beakor still with us. Julian, you talked
about the importance of $60 crude. Just
flesh that out for us. Why is it so
important to the stock market?
>> Well, I it's it's the stability of the
price. And look, you know, I think one
of the things that that Trump has been
very happy that he's been able to
deliver going back to this first year is
that visibly in terms of the
affordability crisis, there is not an
affordability crisis at the pump
anymore. Gas prices have continued to
fall and what we've seen is that that
has a tendency to bleed through to other
areas. It has not yet and it may not. I
mean, if you think about what happened
in the commodity markets yesterday, the
surge in copper was anticipatory for
this buildout that we're going to have
in Venezuela. But the fact is is that
the consumer among the prices that the
consumer anchors on the energy price is
extremely important and in in that
respect sort of knowing that you're
below $3 a gallon is very
psychologically beneficial.
>> Is it consistent to have low oil prices
and an outperforming energy sector?
It's a rough go to to think about that
in the long term. But again, and I think
we've seen this over the entirety of
this rally, it's it's there's a a
massive dispersion, the lowest
correlations of really in many years
among stocks. And I think when you look
at at the energy sector, you're going to
see winners and losers based on where
this is all going. Do you see a reason
to invest more in Latin America as a
result of the uh Don Row doctrine that
we keep hearing about?
>> Interesting question. Uh frank frankly
the reason that we think that um you
know the rest of the world, Latin
America included, is more interesting is
because we think you saw a very
significant top in the dollar a year
ago. and all else equal again over the
long haul what we started to see was
portfolio rebalancing away from the US
dribbs and drabs slowly and frankly
that's not going to accelerate given the
fact that our view that the AI theme has
further to run but over the long term if
you believe as we do that you've made a
significant top in the dollar you want
to diversify to the rest of the world
>> the oil majors are jumping on this new
news not so much crude energy before the
weekend as opposed to after the weekend,
would you have a different view on
potentially wanting to invest in the US
majors?
>> Again, if you if you look at 2025, one
of the themes has been the Trump
administration sort of influencing the
selection of winners and losers on
various themes, obviously steel, uh rare
earths, etc. Clearly, there's an element
of this happening. Uh now we don't know
what it looks like but we do know that
Donald Trump is a businessman and the
endorsement of Rodriguez given her
experience in the oil patch really tells
you that that's where the emphasis
>> it does potentially help put a lid on
oil prices. But when you think about AI
there's one issue of affordability that
Americans are dealing with and that's
electricity prices. How are you thinking
about that this year given it is a
midterm election year? Well, it there's
no question that that is the pushpull.
It's been the pushpull the entire year.
But again, all else equal, the president
has shown an ability to influence events
that moderate oil prices and at some
point that's likely to flow through to
the rest of it. But again the the the
intent is because of the recognition of
the importance is AI of AI as a theme
both for the US and uh you know on the
US corporate level
>> can we finish with a sentiment check
year-end price target 7750 been busy
speaking to clients when you talk to
them are they more excited about what
can go right this year or more worried
about what can go wrong
>> I would say I it's in balance to be
perfectly frank what what bothers us is
that this is the first time in my memory
going back to when I was on the buy side
that there was no strategist on the
street that had a price target below
where the index level is. Thank you
Bloomberg for compiling that
information. And what we found that over
the course of last year when uh
sentiment got tipped too far in one
direction you had pullbacks and here we
are at VIX 14. So to assume that it's
clear sailing, you know, for weeks on
end is probably a faulty assumption.
>> Stateful Barry Bannister, the lower 7K
on the S&P year end.
>> No one's expecting any kind of
significant decline. I do wonder though
what the gains mean in the context of
metals in the concepts of potentially
the dollar losing value. Is this a
different kind of rally when it comes to
the inflation that you're seeing in real
assets versus the financialization of
the mon of the system?
>> Julian, good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> What is it January 6th? We can still do
happy new year
>> and we can do congratulations.
>> Larry David I think it's only the first
three days. Oh for gosh. I think you
could do
>> the first full week back.
>> Seven days super the cut off.
>> That's ridiculous.
>> I think Valentine's Day. Happy
Valentine's Day. Happy
>> is ridiculous. [laughter]
>> Julia, thank you. Up next on the program
we'll catch up with Solid Desai of
Franklin Temple and fixed income from
New York City. [music] You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Two-day
[music]
winning streak on the S&P 500 this
morning just about unchanged so far.
Yesterday on the NASDAQ snapping a 5-day
slide on the Nasdaq 100 adding just a
little bit of weight to the rally up by
0.06%. [music]
The bigger moves are actually over in
Asia. So check it out. The Cosby in
South Korea in three sessions up by more
than 7%. Another all-time [music] high
in today's session up by 1.5%.
Global equities doing nicely. MCI
Asia-Pacific
absolutely [music] flying to start the
year.
>> Yeah. Led by big tech because ultimately
the uh consumerf facing technology
coming out of Asia really [music] has
been driving the boat. Korea is
interesting also because Korea and China
have recently tried to mend ties. So
people looking at some geopolitical
[music] risk potentially waning there.
but really a focus on the rest of the
world given the fact that [music] so
many people think that the dollar really
is going to weaken us here.
>> People love to throw mud at the S&P 500
and concentration risk. The Cosby,
Samsung Electronics, a [music]
>> lot of mud to be thrown around.
>> There's another company in there, too.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Maybe two companies worth talking about
at the moment over there.
>> Look,
>> I mean, I'm not throwing too much mud.
Do you know what I mean?
>> Yeah, but the mud is warranted. I mean,
ultimately, we're talking about Samsung
and some of their uh their their Android
phones and potentially getting ahead
with respect to uh Google and Gemini,
etc. You're right. It's concentration
risk all around.
>> Futures this morning doing okay. We're
just about unchanged on the S&P 500.
Turn to the bond market. Two-year, 10
year, 30-year bond yields this morning.
Higher. Yesterday, lower. ISM
manufacturing coming in a bit softer
than expected through the week. You're
getting a ton of economic data to start
the year. Looking back to the [music]
month of December and a preview of
what's to come. Looking ahead to the
payroll report really on Friday. We're
building up to that big moment Friday
morning
>> and it potentially is the first cleaner
read [music] since the government
shutdown. Yesterday's ISM manufacturing
was interesting because it came out
weaker than expected in contraction yet
again a 14-month [music] low. And yet,
it wasn't bad enough to be bad news for
equities. It was just bad enough to keep
the Fed in action, which really is going
to be the key goal for so much of this
economic data, at least according to Von
Stock Traders.
>> More data coming up a little bit later
this morning as we count you down to the
opening panel. About 3 hours away, let's
get you some morning movers and cross
over to Danny for more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. I'm going to stick with the
tech theme because we are in the middle
of CES in Las Vegas and we're getting
some announcements. One of them being
that Nvidia is on track with its new
Reuben chips. Nvidia not really moving
this morning, but Coreweave is because
they've announced that their [music]
next data centers in 2026 are going to
be integrating Reuben technology.
They're going to be one of the first
cloud providers to do so. So, those
shares being bit up by more than one and
a half% this morning in the pre-market.
We also got an announcement from Intel.
new laptops coming from Intel with new
processors. That's on track, too. The uh
company over there saying that it's
going to help with AI integration into
laptops. It's really a first test to how
much Lib Bhutan is able to do with all
these investments coming into Intel,
those shares up just under 1%. Finally,
wrapping things up with some earnings in
the tech sector. Microchips, a
semiconductor company, rallying 4% in
the pre-market announced earnings.
pre-announced earnings yesterday and
upgraded its sales outlook. Also with
the theme of AMD's Lisa Sue saying that
demand is there. City saying it's a
positive first read and it's an early
read so more good news might be to come.
John
>> Danny, thank you. We'll take that.
Thanks for the update. More from Danny
in the next hour. On our radar this
morning, the President Donald Trump
telling NBC News active Venezuelan
leader Darcy Rodriguez has been
cooperating with officials. President
Trump clarifying there was no contact
with Rodriguez prior to the capture of
Maduro. Elsewhere, US and European
officials meeting in Paris to try and
finalize security guarantees for
Ukraine. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that negotiators are working
to integrate a US proposal that could
put American boots on the ground after
the war. And finally, the president also
expecting to address House Republicans
at their annual GOP member retreat later
on this morning. Republicans said to
discuss their 26 agenda ahead of the
upcoming midterm elections later this
year.
>> So, a lot of people are expecting uh
Venezuela to dominate the conversations.
I'm actually more interested in some of
the other things, the agenda, the the
fiscal agenda that could potentially
come to the four with respect to
healthcare and some of the other
initiatives, especially given some of
the bills that could come to the floor
this week. A real question here,
especially from a market perspective,
how much fiscal and monetary will backs
stop this market. We might get a real
clue after this meeting. This was
supposed to be all about affordability
into the midterm elections. This is what
Trump's top pollster have already told
the speaker and other house members.
This is what you need to focus on. But
now the elephant in the room is going to
be completely overshadowed by Venezuela
because the president has been talking
about since he first ran in 2016 that he
will not nation build. And how do you do
that? And what is the extent of US
military and economic aid to Venezuela
when you said you will not nation build,
but at the same time the president is
saying he's running the country and he's
not afraid of potentially putting boots
on the ground. And that's got a lot of
Republicans up in arms ahead of the
midterm.
>> Who are the notable Republicans? where
you said the cracks in a party in
Washington.
>> Well, at the moment, the ones that are
the most vocal right now are definitely
coming from the Senate. But I think
today after this closed door meeting and
this retreat, you're potentially going
to hear more from House Republicans. The
speaker yesterday kept defending and
saying, "We are not running the country.
There are no boots on the ground." And
it is very different than what the
president is willing to say out in the
open to the press.
>> You say closed door. Doesn't this thing
leak in real time?
>> Yes.
>> Doesn't it usually leak in real time? I
think the president's remarks
potentially could be if they open that
up, but there's the real conversations
are going to be, you know,
>> aren't they like texting Jake Sherman in
real time? We often [laughter] see that,
don't we?
>> Yeah, sometimes. Um, I want to
understand how this is reading through
to the constituency, right? Like this is
one thing that we haven't seen and there
has been a real unity so far among
Republican Congress members out loud.
Have the polls ratified that considering
exactly what you just said, which is
this wasn't exactly on the MAGA agenda?
Only one-third of Americans expressed
support for this in the most recent poll
from Reuters Ipsos that was done right
after this. I think a lot of Republicans
are taking this twofold and we spoke
about this. You can think the operation
in itself was stunning, bold, brilliant.
Delta Force, the American military might
is incredible. At the same time, a lot
of Republicans are questioning what does
this signal? What's the day two plan?
And what is the timeline for all of this
really to evolve? Look out for that very
leaky closed door meeting a little bit
later on. Elsewhere, investors looking
to a fresh slate of economic data to
kick off the new year. So desire
Franklin Temple and fixed income
writing, I maintain a constructive
outlook for US growth. There is a lot of
uncertainty, however. I see the balance
skewed towards inflation risk,
especially in the first part of 26. And
I'll join us now for more. Good morning.
It's good to see you.
>> Morning. Nice to see you.
>> It's very nice to see you. Happy New
Year. Let's talk about that source of
inflation risk. What's the most
prominent source of inflation risk for
you and the team? the fiscal uh the
fiscal impulse. So, uh you were just
talking about the what we hope to see,
but the reality is this week we already
know the big beautiful bill is going to
hand out a lot of goodies across the
board. Whether we're talking about uh
the consumer, whether we're talking
about industry, all of these factors
lead to inflation. And we haven't
actually something which comes on and
then moves off the front page is the
$2,000 rebate check. Remember that in
the first three months of the Biden
administration, we helicopter dropped
$1,400 checks. And I've always
maintained that was one of the principal
sources of the inflation burst. We saw
that massive fiscal splurge. If we get
that splurge in H1, it results in
consumer demand. And I know that there
is a lot of concern and angst about the
labor market. The labor market is a
different labor market. I don't think
you can read 30k jobs the same way you
could read 30k jobs 2 years ago. That's
supposed to be balance right now. So if
you're above 30, you know, the economy
is kind of treading water.
>> Do you see companies potentially passing
on more of these higher costs if the
consumer is able to do it because they
have more money in their pocket?
>> Yeah, I do. I do actually. There passing
on the higher costs but also genuine
higher demand. The one thing which
continues to flow through is the
Americans American consumers desire to
consume. And I'm very interested to know
what the end of this Christmas season
will look like. But looking at what
we're hearing in real time, it looks
like it's going to be a strong one.
>> Putting these two stories together in
Washington DC right now, the president
is clearly putting a lid on oil prices
going up when it looks what's happening
in Venezuela. At the same time, they're
going to potentially get more fiscal
impulse ahead of the midterm election.
Does the oil depression of a price help
the potential stagflationary fears you
have?
>> So it's not a it's not stagflation. I'm
expecting growth of 2.75 to 3% driven by
that consumer demand, driven by the fact
that we're getting private sector
investment in this country between last
year and this year. It's around $1
trillion. That's more than what it's
about as much Germany is going to do
over 10 years. So when you stop and put
that into perspective, you've got a lot
of tailwinds coming in for growth this
year. So it's not really stagflation
that I'm talking about. I'm just saying
that I don't expect major advances on
inflation. Now can oil be the gamecher?
I don't think so. And I don't think in
the near term I think Venezuelan oil
that's a 2 three year out story because
yeah there's a sentiment driven yes
there's going to be a lot more supply
but how much actual supply are you going
to see in the near term. So
>> we talk about inflation as though it
were a monolith and inflation can be
expressed through the market many
different ways. It can be a higher long
end of the yield curve. You could see,
for example, the dollar weaken
substantially. You could see metals
prices go up significantly. Which node
do you think will transmit through
markets most directly? I think a little
bit of all. So, you're going to see a
further steepening of the yield curve in
my book because I think the Fed should
not have cut up to 350. And if they
actually go further than 350, I think it
would be a substantial mistake. and
we're going to see a significantly
steeper yield curve because if we stop
to think the Fed has cut 175 basis
points and 10-year yields are higher
than they were before they started
cutting which means underlying the ma
market's apparent [snorts] sanguinness
about everything that's going on.
Clearly there is some concern on the
fiscal and the inflation and in terms of
the dollar I'd say the dollar is a
little bit mixed in terms of the G3. I
think we're pretty close to fair value
against the euro actually. And I think
we're massively overvalued.
>> Can I jump in because you'll acknowledge
the bulk of that move was in 24, not 25.
>> Absolutely.
>> In 25 the cut interest rates and bond
yields on a 10-year maturity actually
fell. They didn't rise. what's changed
for 25 and the cutting cycle of last
year compared to what we saw in 24
>> because I think this is the year you're
actually get if you get the fiscal
impulse that I'm talking about those
those tax rebate checks those so the
consumption demand the tailwinds are
stronger I think in addition on the non
AI hyperscaling front we actually
haven't seen that much uh investment
last year and I think we probably will
this year so I think there are lots of
tailwinds to growth this year that we
didn't actually have last year and you
had everything related to the tariff
related uncertainty which really skewed
one half of the year. So I think when
tariffs liberation day was first
announced everyone was sure that meant a
recession in the US. I didn't but just
>> congratulations [laughter]
>> but it was so I think we just start from
a different spot.
>> So a steeper yield curve in and of
itself isn't necessarily negative for
the market. It can be actually really
positive when it comes to financials.
the absolute level of yields does
matter. Yes. What's the stopping out
point for 10-year yields where suddenly
risk assets lose their luster?
>> So, I think uh you know, I'm not I think
that
fixed income markets have shown an
ability to absorb all the way to 475 and
above. Equity markets, it's a different
question. And I'm not an equity person,
so I'll duck that. But I'll just say
that do I see uh 10-year yields going
back to those substantially above 450 4
close to 475 levels? Actually, I do. If
you don't have the wild card, which is
something which knocks the economy into
a recession and really that's it's just
not my baseline. If I look at the
tailwinds coming from monetary and
fiscal policy right now, it's very hard
to argue that we're heading for a
weakening of the economy. Equity guys
love to talk about bonds.
Bond people can talk about equities. The
spread in the last 30 minutes is three.
Three cuts. You're basically at zero for
this year. And Julian Emanuel of
Everore, equity guy, is at three for
this year.
>> No. And I think that's the difference
because I think equity people do get
concerned. Certainly within my own firm,
my equity colleagues get very concerned
when I say that. You know, honestly,
they shouldn't have cut last time and
I'm not sure they're going to cut at all
this this year.
>> Let's be really honest. Equity guys talk
about bonds and bond guys talk about
equities all the time.
They just preface it by saying we don't
cover that. But let me tell you
[laughter] that is what happens every
single time.
>> I I agree. What can I say?
>> As always, thanks for dropping by. Thank
you. So either of Franklin Templeton
fixed income. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's check in with Yahara for
more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Denmark's prime minister saying
NATO will collapse if the US attacks
Greenland. The [music] warning coming as
President Donald Trump grew ups his
desire to take over the island nation.
Steven Miller, a top aid [music] to the
president, telling CNN Greenland
rightfully belong to the US and the
Trump administration could seize it if
it wanted. Meanwhile, copper is
extending its rally above $13,000 as
investors [music] bet on a tighter
market. Possible US import curbs, rising
demand, and production constraints are
fueling bullish calls on the industrial
[music]
metal. US inventories of copper also
surging with 44 straight days of net
inflows in comx tracked warehouses. And
in sports, Scotland is preparing for its
first appearance in the World Cup since
1998. [music]
The country's first minister proposing a
national bank holiday on Monday, June
15th, the day after it plays [music] its
opening game against Haiti in Boston.
That's brief. John
>> Har, thank you. I'm not responsible for
putting that story in the news.
[laughter] Maybe I just want to
understand the context.
>> We should be on holiday for the whole
World Cup.
>> I think that I agree and I at minimum
think we should take the show on the
road cuz I don't want to miss that many
games.
>> First course of business for May Mani
apparently is to [music] make the
tickets more affordable. However, there
are
>> some of them are like [laughter] 90,000.
>> There are no games in New York City.
They're in New Jersey.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, maybe make make
soccer [music] affordable again.
>> My goodness. Up next on a program,
Nvidia's new frontier. The amount of
computation necessary for AI is
skyrocketing. Vera Rubin is in full
production. We're announcing Alpamo, the
world's first
thinking
reasoning autonomous vehicle AI. At this
point, I can't keep up. So, frankly,
he's going to help us. He join us
[music] from HSBC in just a moment. From
New York, this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Some people wake up and choose violence.
Drew Matis. Drew Matis writes in from
Metife. Who would pay to watch Scotland
versus Haiti?
>> Wow, that is absolutely right. So, let's
hear your response.
>> I would happily pay. [music]
>> Internet, do your thing. Same.
>> Scottish fans will make that quite an
atmosphere.
>> How much would you pay? Also, I would go
to any World Cup game. They're going to
be amazing.
>> Not going to answer that. Brammo futures
look like this on the S&P 500. [music]
Positive buy or rather negative buy,
close to a tenth of 1%. We're up on the
NASDAQ. The Nasdaq yesterday snapping a
5day slide. This morning high by [music]
0.06%.
Really muted price action so far. Let's
talk about big tech under Savannah this
morning. Nvidia's new frontier.
The amount of computation necessary for
AI is skyrocketing. The demand for
Nvidia GPUs is skyrocketing. Enormous
amounts of investments coming into this
industry, which explains why we're so
busy. Today [music] we're announcing
Alpamo, the world's first
thinking, reasoning autonomous vehicle
AI. I can tell you that Vera Rubin is in
full production.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Nvidia announcing a new line of
products, including its next generation
of chips. Its top-of-the-line Vera Rubin
processor on track to debut later this
year. Frank Lee of HSBC has a buy rating
and 320 price target on the stock. Frank
joins us now for more. Frank, welcome to
the program. AI is skyrocketing. Demand
for GPUs is skyrocketing, too. Frank,
put some numbers on skyrocketing. What
does that look like through this year?
>> I think, look, Nvidia is going to see a
really strong year. We've highlighted
that a couple of months ago that, you
know, based on what the uh allocation
they've given at TSMC, they're going to
see over 100% type of capacity growth.
But I think a lot of this was already
widely expected. So, you know, I don't
think there was as much of a surprise
from the CES. Um, I think probably the
most interesting part was the alpomeo uh
in terms of the autonomous driving
because this is the first time we've
heard Jensen really talking about this.
Um, so I think that's one of the
exciting things we've seen from from the
CES show.
>> When's that actually going to be
meaningful for the top and bottom line
Frank?
>> So that's a great question, Jonathan,
because I think that is one of the
problems of why I think that it's it's
an exciting new direction for Nvidia,
but as far as timing in terms of the TAM
when earnings going to come through, I
think it's still largely uh further out.
So I think there's not a very good idea
of when those when this when this
contribution is going to come in.
>> Frank, do you have a good understanding
of what exactly the Reuben chip is? I
asked this because I was trying to
understand the 88 different strands and
then you have 140 different avenues. I
mean do you have a sense of why this is
such a significant upgrade from the
previous iterations?
>> Yeah, I mean I think the the computing
power continues to go up. Um, but more
importantly, I think the other thing
that Nvidia talked about on this uh for
CES was the introduction of more
networking chips and storage. So
ultimately, they're talking about trying
to bring down the cost of the solution,
bring down a number of GPUs that you
need in order to do the training. Uh so
in a way to make uh everything a lot
more efficient. So I think that's one of
the positives behind this. Uh but again,
they've introduced this platform as
early as CES last year. So, while
there's a lot of excitement about the
ramp up, this has been coming for some
for quite some time now,
>> which is the reason why maybe you aren't
seeing that much of a reaction in the
pricing, we've heard some pretty
significant things announced overnight.
Uh really, it seems like as John was
pointing out, Samsung and some of the
Korean memory chips as well as the uh
smartphone that Samsung is coming out
with, those are actually generating the
most excitement. What is actually the
most interesting that you've seen so far
coming out of the Confab in Vegas? Yeah.
So I I think you you bring up an
interesting point about Samsung. I think
one of the reasons Samsung has done so
well is that the uh the strength in the
memory uh recovery has been much
stronger than expected in the last
couple of months. So you look at names
like Micron, they've moved up quite
aggressively. They've outperformed a lot
in the last month or two. And you know
the the price hikes that we see for
memory specifically will continue to go
up in the first half this year. I mean
ultimately how much further it goes up
no one really knows for sure but the
momentum clearly is a lot stronger
behind memory at the moment which is why
I think there's more excitement around
there.
>> Frank when it comes to China we heard
from the Nvidia CFO yesterday saying
that there is strong demand for the
H200s in China. Do you foresee Beijing
allowing companies to buy those chips?
Yeah, that's a great question, Maria,
because I think one of the the
disappointments was that August last
year when the H20 got approved to go
into China, the demand was fairly
lukewarm from the China government and
the China market in general. Um, it does
seem like we are seeing some positive
demand for H200 this time around. It's a
better chip. Uh, and I think this is one
of the things that's been highlighted by
Jensen as well. Uh, and and we do think
there is some upside potential now. So,
this is one of the few I think one of
the recent positive news from Nvidia
from coming out of China at least is
that the H200 does seem to get a much
better response than the H20 was a
couple months ago.
>> Does it even matter because they're
talking about the Reuben right now and
how powerful that's going to be?
>> Yeah, I mean that's been one of our bull
cases that, you know, we don't really
need the China business to come in. Uh,
you know, our numbers for the most part,
uh, which are largely seeing very strong
growth doesn't really incorporate the
China business really coming back. So,
we don't think they really need it. And
so we think this is an optionality if it
if China comes in. Uh but the majority
of the growth as you pointed out is
still coming from Reuben going into this
year.
>> Frank, it seems like everyone's talking
about the whole tech story as completely
isolated from Venezuela and not involved
with the geopolitics in any way. And yet
around this table, we were talking
before the segment about how there is a
real geopolitical tint tilt to this.
What happens if China invades Taiwan or
prevents shipments or does war
exercises? What does that do to the
entirety of the ecosystem that's being
talked about at CES and beyond?
>> I I don't think it's a scenario anybody
can envision because if anything does
happen along those lines, then we've got
a lot bigger problems in the world uh
instead of Nvidia chips. Um so I I I
think that's not really a baseline
scenario I think people are looking at
right now. So um I I think it's too big
of a of a question to really even fathom
if anything like that does happen. Frank
of the risk factors on your radar right
now. What is the most prominent one for
the year ahead?
>> I think right now um what has been a
fair I think feedback especially on the
AI trade in the last few months has been
two things right. The first is you know
does Google become a lot more
competitive with their TPUs and and you
know their their whole AI strategy and
the second thing is you know some
questions around open AI's funding. Um
you know I I think we do see that
there's still some potential gaps there.
So I think those two are probably going
to be the bigger question this year in
regards to AI.
>> Frank, good to see you. Thank you,
buddy. Frank Lee there of HSBC. Thank
you, sir. On Nvidia and CES, don't miss
the AMD CEO, Lisa Sue, right here on
Bloomberg TV, 11:00 a.m. Eastern time
speaking with Bloomberg's Ed Ledlau on
Bloomberg Technology later on the Nvidia
CEO, Jensen Blanc, at 1:15 p.m. Eastern
time. Bremo, I think we're all right
there with you, even if frankly he's
not. I have to say Venezuela was not on
my CES bingo card in Las Vegas.
>> I don't think it was on anyone's bingo
card for this weekend, which is the
reason why I took so many people by
surprise. Frank's response was really
interesting. It's such a significant
risk on so many different fronts that we
can't even imagine it. So, let's just
put that aside and continue betting on
what we can bet on, which raises a
question. How big of a potential risk
scenario is any kind of even war games
to this entire trade? The US stock
market is percolated on this AI bubble
and this trend, right? Maybe not a
bubble, but this AI trend. Okay, 60% of
the world's semiconductors comes from
Taiwan. 90% of the advanced chips come
from Taiwan. So, yeah, it'll be bad for
Nvidia, but it'll be bad for everyone's
401k. And that is just speaking about
the financial impact, not of course the
geopolitical and human impact.
>> So bad is difficult to consider. Up next
on the program, we'll catch up with
Emily Roland of John Hancock, Ed Mills
of Raymond James, the former White House
senior adviser, Amos Hogstein, and Matt
Hornback of Morgan Stanley. [music]
Second hour of Blindberg surveillance
just around the corner.
[music]
>> We come into the new year prepared for
some volatility.
>> Maybe it's time to rebalance a bit.
>> We're already seeing some rotation. And
what the market doesn't understand is
the president's willingness to take
risk.
>> We get more macro risk like this, it's
going to be hard [music] to keep risk
priced where it is.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg [music] surveillance starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. equity futures on the S&P 500
following a two-day rally pulling back
not even a tenth of [music] 1% on the
NASDAQ 100 following a 5-day slide which
we snapped yesterday. We had just a
little bit of weight to the rally up a
tenth of 1%. [music] Snoopsy morning
gets more interesting through the week
ahead as the week grows older. Tons of
economic data. PMIs later on this
morning following a week ISM
manufacturing yesterday. ADP and Jolts
data that comes tomorrow. Jobless claims
on Thursday. Then the big one, the
headline event, payrolls Friday just
around the corner. watch the
unemployment rate. At a certain point,
if you do see the unemployment rate tick
higher, how much does that put the Fed
squarely back in uh the game in terms of
cutting rates more aggressively? And
this is the big debate for markets
[music] right now. How much
accommodation will there be on the
monetary side and on the fiscal side?
And if you get a monetary uh apparatus
that really is cutting rates
aggressively, that can give extra fuel
to an equity rally that's looking past
any kind of weakness that might come
through in that unemployment rate. Maybe
you can look past the headline payrolls
figure and speak to excuses [music]
elsewhere and say 50k is the new normal,
30k, 25 even. I don't even know. But
perhaps you can dismiss that. It gets
harder to dismiss the climb [music] in
unemployment through 4.5%. And really
you need to see that settle down. Not
just for the economy, but I think also
for the politics down in Washington.
>> Oh, absolutely. A detail yesterday was
talking about 4.5% for him means the
Fed's going to cut. We're going to
speaking to Andrew Alenhor. [music] He
says he is expecting a 4.7 unemployment
rate. If you still have inflation above
your target and already the polls are
talking about affordability is our
biggest concern. And then people start
losing their jobs. This becomes a
terrible cocktail ahead of the midterm
election.
>> That's what's going to give the doves on
the committee over at the Federal
Reserve a credible case to cut [music]
interest rates. Even with the president
making a political case to cut interest
rates
>> if they cut rates though because they
have to because of true weakness will
still be construed [music] as a positive
thing. Morgan Stanley came out with a
note saying that one of the big risks is
that you do get some sort of jobless
expansion [music]
that ends up with bad news being bad
news. The Fed is cutting for the wrong
reason, which is people don't have the
jobs to give them the incomes to go out
and keep spending. [music] It goes to
the question of can you get a broadening
out in the equity rally or is it going
to be concentrated in the AI trend
without [music] the rest of the economy
participating? Look, there's still so
many questions and we haven't gotten
clean data for months. So all of a
sudden, can people look at this data and
say, "Okay, now it's clean. We're
getting a true read." or people going to
still have the same questions.
>> 65K is the estimate in our survey.
That's going to change ahead of Friday
as more estimates come in. The range is
pretty wide. 155 is the high. The low is
[music] 23K. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Emily Roland of John
Hancock as energy fuels a record rally.
Former White House senior adviser Amos
Hawkstein on new leadership in
Venezuela. And we'll catch up with Matt
Hornbach of Morgan Stanley predicting
some inflation payback. We begin this
sound with stocks holding near all-time
highs. Emily Rdent of John Hancock
writing, "At the end of the day, markets
are still being driven
>> from momentum." Emily joins us now for
more. Emily, good morning and happy new
year. Let's talk about what is in the
driving seat right now and why you're
looking to the international equity
story.
>> Yeah, it's all about momentum, John, and
welcome back and happy new year. I'm
only going to say that this week. I'm
going by the John Pharaoh happy new year
rules here. Um, but this has been an
environment where we still see
technicals and momentum in the driver's
seat. you almost have to remove the
macro from your brain right now coming
into the new year. Some of the data you
mentioned around ISM yesterday, one of
the most notable elements of that report
to us was in new orders. Um a very small
portion of industries reported positive
new orders, new orders, most of them uh
reporting weakness there. Uh that is a
key leading indicator. Um you know,
we're still watching, you know, some of
this macro weakness. The business
surveys are telling you things aren't
great. But meanwhile, the markets are
saying get ready. We're going to see a
massive cyclical expansion. The economy
is going to accelerate meaningfully this
year. So there's a major disconnect
right now between macro and markets.
>> How do you think the story reconciles?
>> Yeah, I mean, we've got to watch uh what
happens from a fundamental standpoint.
you know, if companies can continue to
show uh that they're managing some of
these macro risks, that they can
maintain margins, that they can deal
with some of the pressures around
tariffs, um, and we can continue to see
that earnings growth come in, that's
going to be the key tell, but analysts,
John, are penciling in 15% earnings
growth for S&P 500 companies in 2026. We
think that looks awfully loft uh, lofty
here uh, heading into the year. So
really that's what we're going to be
watching as we kind of come into Q4
earnings season here in the next couple
of weeks.
>> Well Emily, on average it might end up
being true just because it's led by a
cohort of about 10 different names that
are leading the AI trend, not
necessarily hinge to the broader
economy. At what point do you think that
that is going to be what ends up
continuing to win with the rest of the
493 whatever other cliche you want to
put out there lags behind?
>> So we are still overweight technology
companies. We are looking for quality in
this market. This is companies with
great return on equity. The ability to
really produce outsiz earnings growth at
a reasonable price. So think about
value, quality value at a reasonable
price. Tech score is high on that, but
we're also looking for areas like
industrials to outperform in 2026. That
is our favorite value sector, our
favorite cyclical sector into the year.
We're mixing that in with some comm
services, which is sort of tech light.
uh and then you've got some some health
care in there as well to give that more
defensive posture. So we do think that
there should be some broadening out in
terms of earnings trends into the year
but we are not ready to bet against
tech. It still has the best earnings
across every companies across the globe
right now. And and I would say on that
front you know what you're seeing now is
just this massive rotation continuing
into Europe. You look at European
stocks, they were up about 35% last year
on 3% earnings growth. Um, so the
momentum is there right now. You know,
you think about momentum sort of
stalling in the United States. The
poster child for momentum right now is
overseas. So we want to be mindful of
that as well.
>> And you lean, how much do you lean into
that based on some of the geopolitical
backdrop as well? this question about
what the United States's latest move in
Venezuela would do to its international
standing or potentially diversification
away from the nation.
>> Yeah, we don't look at the situation in
in Venezuela as being, you know, a
massive impact on markets, but and
Julian Emanuel pointed this out earlier.
It's always it's been about the weaker
dollar. Um the dollar weakened
meaningfully of course last year. It's a
little bit weaker, you know, to start
2026. And that is just a massive
liquidity release valve. It helps non-
US equities. It helps riskier assets
outperform. And the weaker dollars was
hugely accreative uh to the earnings of
non- US equities last year. If it
continues into this year, that is
another reason to to, you know, continue
to hold on to some of those non US
assets. Again, we would do it in a
higher quality way. Our managers are
finding opportunities in areas like
industrials. They're finding
opportunities in areas like healthcare.
So we would think about being very
active in that space.
>> Do you think that trend is going to
continue the weakness of the US dollar?
>> Well, you know, Ann Marie, it's really
to us been more of a sentiment trade.
Like we get our textbooks out, we look
at all the normal things that can help
you understand currency uh
differentials. And usually when the US
economy is doing stronger, check. Um
when we're seeing a better labor market,
check. better earnings growth in the
United States. Check. That would all
those things would all tell you that
there should be a flood of dollars onto
our shore. In addition to the fact that
uh interest rate differentials would
point to a stronger dollar as well.
Again, you've got to remove that sort of
macro, those historical textbooks from
your brain here. Um and think about sort
of this sell everything America trade
that's really permeated markets and it's
included currencies. Um so, you know,
the momentum certainly is there. Um, I
don't think that we'll see a another
sort of 10%ish decline in the dollar
into this year. That one's tough for us
to see. But again, the momentum is with
the weaker dollar. So, we want to think
about having elements in the portfolio
to help position for that continuation.
>> I mean, do you think the Fed needs to
continue cutting interest rates to
support that view?
>> We do. Uh, John, there's something that
the market's just not picking up on that
we've been talking about for a while,
which is the disinflation that's coming
from the shelter component of housing.
Um it's 35% of CPI. The BLS measures are
very very lagged. Um things like Zillow
and Apartment List are telling us that
home prices and rental prices are just
about flat for the year while the BLS is
telling us that they're up 4%. Um if you
plug those numbers in in terms of that
real-time data, you're actually getting
closer to the Fed's target, if not
through it. So the weakness that we're
seeing in the labor market, you know,
everybody's brushing past these two
months of negative payroll reports,
that's pretty significant. It doesn't
happen outside of recessions. The
biggest risk, I think, though, to the
Fed cutting is if we do see commodity
prices uh rally here, if these
geopolitical risks extend to things like
oil and copper rallying, that is a risk
to the view and also a risk to the sort
of bullish case for equities into this
year.
>> Yeah, I was going to say, what about
copper, right? What about some of these
other metals? I do wonder just uh
getting your view on the geopolitics of
the situation and how you include that
in some of your thesis. It strikes me
that a lot of markets are saying when
you don't understand the parameters of
something you just ignore it and focus
on the small aspects that you do
understand. Is that kind of how you're
approaching the entire situation and the
potential whatifs that people are coming
out there with when it comes to
Greenland, when it comes to Taiwan, when
it comes to other areas around the
world.
>> Yeah, Lisa, you know, we tend to not use
geopolitics as an input to making
investment decisions. it tends to be
short-lived and investors tend to move
past it and you're clearly seeing that
in markets right now sort of brushing
this off. Obviously, we're seeing the
impact in precious metals, oil, etc. Um,
but really not much. Again, it's a
momentum driven market right now. That
is the pervading theme right now. It's
like trade first, ask questions later.
Um, and that's really what we're
watching. It's a tricky environment for
those of you us that are looking at
macro factors and we're looking at
earnings, but that's really what's been
in the driver's seat right now and
markets largely looking past
geopolitical issues.
>> Emily, appreciate the framing and happy
new year. It's good to see you as
always. Thank you, Emily Ronen there of
John Hancock on the latest in this
equity market.
>> Yeah, it seems like everyone's looking
past it. I like this quote from Morgan
Stanley, the team over there. They said,
"Micro concerns still matter, but micro
will become a larger driver of asset
returns in the cyclical recovery." How
much is because you just can't know with
macro? What edge are you going to have
trying to get into the minds of a of a
truth posting?
>> We were talking about this at the start
of the week. Even if you predicted some
of the events that took place last year
with absolute accuracy, get in the price
action in response to it correct by the
end of the year. Tremendously difficult.
>> This has been a humility building
exercise and you have a lot of humility
currently out there. There's just a
question though of whether AI can win
all and that seems to be what everyone's
throwing their same hat into. So, let's
see if it can come to fruition.
>> That really has been the lesson since
the pandemic.
>> 100%.
>> Stay humble. Equity futures on the S&P
500 just about unchanged with an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's check in with you Arnold
for more. Hey, Hierra.
>> Hi, [music] John. China is imposing new
controls on Japan for exports with any
military use. [music] It's the latest
move in an ongoing spat between Asia's
top two economies. China's Ministry of
Commerce cited comments from [music]
Japan's Prime Minister regarding Taiwan.
Trade officials in Japan declined to
comment. [music]
Meanwhile, the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting is officially shutting down
after months of government funding cuts.
The agency, which helps fund NPR, PBS,
and multiple public television and radio
stations, [music] voted to dissolve
itself following nearly 60 years of
service. According to a statement, it
plans to distribute [music] all
remaining funds. And Amazon is unveiling
a new line of artwork style TVs. The
Ember Art line is designed to resemble a
piece of framed art and will come in 10
different colors. [music] It will be
available starting this spring in 55 and
65 in sizes. The line [music] starts at
$898 for the smaller version. That's
brief. John,
>> is that without the box? Can you find
out? Yara, is that without the box? Cuz
Samsung did this, right? Yeah,
>> but you have to get this box and then
you have to [music] cut out a piece of
the wall to put the fit flat to it.
>> I don't know any
future of your wall art and you could
flip it in and out and it will be sort
of coming up with content. Then do you
license the content that goes in it and
do you have to pay a subscription fee
[music] for the artwork on your wall?
>> Samsung already doing this
>> or royalties. I assume that this is not
new. This is just sort of trying to
>> get some more clarity in the commercial
break. Hopefully important issue up next
on the program. New year, [music] new
agenda. I am bringing those high prices
down and bringing them down very fast. I
will announce some of the most
aggressive housing reform plans in
American history. I'm also taking on the
gigantic health insurance companies.
[music]
>> A conversation up next with Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Futures unchanged so far this morning.
Just about unchanged on the S&P 500.
Similar story on the NASDAQ. Plenty
developing down in Washington DC under
Savannah this morning. New year, new
agenda.
>> We're bringing our economy back from the
brink of ruin. I am bringing those high
prices down and bringing them down very
fast. You will see this in the new year.
I will announce some of the most
aggressive housing reform plans in
American history. I'm also taking on the
gigantic health insurance companies that
have gotten rich on billions of dollars
of money that should go directly to the
people. So, here's the latest this
morning. President Trump meeting with
House Republicans today to talk through
their election year agenda. Joining us
now to discuss is Bloomberg's Laura
Davidson. Laura, some suspicion that
maybe the events over the weekend might
hijack this meeting. what's top of this
agenda.
>> So, uh, the president wants to keep this
meeting focused on the midterms and
affordability and some of these, uh,
cost of living issues that, uh, House
Republicans are hoping to run on in the
midterms. Uh, but of course, the big
story today is Venezuela and, um, it's
hard to believe that Trump will go into
a room with all the House Republicans
and not address this or that he won't
get questions on it. Uh but this really
sort of presents the the predicament
that that Republicans are in going into
the midterms of that Republicans have
some ambitious plans uh whether it be on
health care or or housing uh you know
that they they want to address these
issues but don't really have sort of the
concrete details worked out amongst
themselves. Uh whereas uh you know the
president is really focused on foreign
policy issues and Democrats seeing a lot
of polling in their favor when it comes
to cost of living, inflation,
affordability um have the upper hand at
least going into this year. Election
cycles are short, Laura, and that's
often why we make some messy decisions
in democracies. We make short-term
decisions. What can they do that will
actually lead to results that they'll
see in the data by the time we get to
the midterms?
>> Uh the answer is not a whole lot. Uh the
the the biggest hope that Republicans
have um going into the midterms is the
tax bill that they passed last year. Um
those uh tax benefits will start to show
up uh for some Americans uh starting in
their in their tax refunds that they'll
see uh later this spring. Uh but the
problem with that bill is that it was
largely an extension of tax cuts that
were already in place. It included some
new things including no taxes on tip and
tips and that expanded salt deduction.
Uh but for a lot of people uh they just
will see no change versus seeing that
there were they essentially avoided a
batter bad scenario where uh tax
increases went into effect.
>> Laura Davidson down in Bloomberg DC
studio in Washington DC. Thank you very
much. Laura Ed Mills of Raymond James
has this to say. Geopolitical tension
will be a key theme for 26.
Domestically, the focus is on the
upcoming need to fund the government.
Edward, we're back to that again. Ed,
good morning.
>> Morning. How are you?
>> Look, we've heard a lot about
affordability. How does that translate
into policy in 26? Well, a lot of it
still with President Trump. He could
stop a number of the tariffs that he's
implemented. Um, I do think it a lot of
this is about their fiscal agenda that
comes from the tax bill. It was made
retroactive to his first day in office.
Uh, but zero of that has actually hit
the economy. Uh we've estimated that
that's about $350 billion that is going
to hit the economy here within the next
couple of months. Um it is true that
this is going to be one of the largest
tax refund seasons ever. Uh for someone
that gets the full benefit of the salt
deduction, that's an extra $800 a month
for those households. So I do think that
there is that narrative out there that
this was largely an extension, but there
was a lot of new stuff and all of the
new stuff expires by the end of
President Trump's term. though it is
supercharged in the next couple of
years. This year is the biggest year. Uh
you add what gets added to this year,
we're probably at 6 to700 billion worth
of fiscal stimulus that's coming into
this economy. That's two 2 and a half%
of GDP.
>> And is that enough though to make up for
potentially higher health care premiums,
the fact that there are potentially more
higher costs that could be passed
through because of tariffs, and then
individuals concerns about a more
aggressive foreign policy from this
administration?
>> Uh probably not. Um I do think that
there was a lot of concern about the
consumer in the end of the year last
year. Uh but as the consumers do get
these higher tax returns. Um I think
some of that concern depreciates. It
doesn't go away. Uh on the geopolitical
I think that just goes into the right
track wrong track question uh for a lot
of voters. Uh in generally if the voter
views the country is on the wrong track
they choose the other party. So that's
something you know outside of economics
but more on kind of the vibes and the
feel for the voter. John mentioned how
today is going to be all about
affordability, but really the cloud
overhanging this retreat is Venezuela.
Where are House Republicans right now in
terms of their discussions with the
White House and what they want to see
following the uh capturing of Maduro?
>> I think they're probably pretty divided.
Uh there is the America First group
within uh the House Republicans who have
really supported President Trump because
he was not an interventionalist uh
internationally. Uh and so what the
House is going to be kind of grappling
with is if the Senate passes a
resolution that limits the war powers,
uh is there a push to bring that up?
Because we do know that Democrats would
support that. So Mike Johnson as the
speaker really has to bring his caucus
together, try to focus them on getting
that appropriations bill and say we have
some of the kind of day-to-day business
of the government to get to. Uh let's
give the president a little bit of a
leeway here. See where this goes. I
think that the president is also going
to lean in heavily that this was a law
enforcement action, not necessarily a
military action. It is kind of parsing
words uh but from a congressional kind
of impact here. Uh if it was law
enforcement, Congress has less of a
role. If it was a military action, uh
Congress has a you know constitutional
role there. If you put two these two
ideas together, and I realize that not
many people were thinking this way, but
I was thinking from the debt markets
perspective as I was reading the
Venezuela story and not just about
Venezuela bonds, but does this increase
the deficit if the US has a more
aggressive foreign policy and is putting
troops on the ground? Let's say it comes
to that. We don't know. That's uh not
what is in the base case in any way. Is
in involved in other altercations. How
much is this in the budget or
potentially palatable fiscally from
Republicans? Yeah, I think that the kind
of Republicans have been plenty fine
with increasing the defense budget. If
you look at a percentage of GDP, we're
actually at a low um since World War II
on our defense budget. In the
reconciliation bill, they added an
additional $150 billion to be spent for
the defense budget over the next couple
of years. I do think this is uh
President Trump kind of reasserting the
Monroe Doctrine, kind of focusing more
on the Western Hemisphere that uh has
largely been focused on Asia over the
last couple of years. Uh, so I think
that if they needed to or wanted to, um,
a vote to increase defense spending is
absolutely in the cards and I do think
that defense spending is probably kind
of on the upward trend. Uh, President
Trump would say there are a lot of
resources that could be extracted from
these countries and that there is a
dividend that would come from those
resources that could pay for itself.
>> Are there any fiscal hawks left?
>> No.
>> Okay. Just making sure. I mean, is that
even on the agenda? [laughter]
>> I'm sure there are, but there's no one.
There's, you know, I've always said
people are really concerned about the
debt and the deficit when they're in the
minority. Uh they get into charge and
then they care about their kind of
policies and debt and deficit concerns
kind of are secondary and it is other
people's debt and deficits that they are
concerned about.
>> We're shocked. Is it too early to talk
about 28?
>> It's never too early.
>> Let's talk about it. The influence of
Fidian politics on the leadership of
this party right now. The fact that this
operation was led not out of Washington
but out of Marilago. How important is
all of that? Well, I think that you also
look at the influence of the expat
community in Florida of the, you know,
Venezuelan community that has long
wanted regime change in Venezuela. In
Venezuela is the patron of Cuba and you
have Marco Rubio, Secretary of State,
who is the son of Cuban immigrants. If
he is able to bring about the end of
regime, uh, of the current regime in
Cuba, politically, at least in Florida,
that is, uh, as close as you get to kind
of nirvana. Uh, so I do think that we're
going to be looking at 2028. JD Vance as
vice president always has to be kind of
at the top of the list. Uh, but kind of
number two increasingly looks like Marco
Rubio as long as things continue to go
well.
>> But how does JD Vance, an individual
that definitely is again against nation
building and interventionists? How does
he square this when he goes out and
campaigns for 2028?
>> I think it's depending upon how much
this is still front and center. I think
one thing that is fascinating to me is
uh we've had these major geopolitical
events and then we go a week or two
later and they seem as if they were kind
of distant memory. Um we have had an
incredible amount of geopolitical action
over the last 5 years uh and very little
market reaction. Probably the only thing
that had a sustained but it was still
relatively limited was the invasion of
Ukraine. Uh so you I even go back to six
years ago on you know January 3rd 2020
we had the assassination of uh Sulammani
that launched that year. I go back to
2020 the assassination of Sulammani was
not the you know kind of story of
>> kind of buried that pretty quickly.
>> Yeah but it is but how quickly we move
on.
>> I agree with you very quickly. TV time
we were told yesterday, right?
>> Yeah. Basically
>> although what's about to take place in
Venezuela is not going to take place on
TV time as we were also told.
>> Absolutely not. I mean, I think the
administration would like that and
they're trying to take this pragmatic
approach while continuing with Deli
Rodriguez, but tapping these resources
Ed's talking about is going to take
years and billions of dollars.
>> I'm just laughing about the past couple
of years, not this in any way, shape, or
form, but just the sensory overload.
It's sort of like, you know, it's sort
of whack-a-ole. You can only focus on
one shiny bright light at one time, and
if they're 50 million, then you just
sort of lose [music] focus.
>> Yeah, desensitized. I think very
desensitized. Ed, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by Ed Mills of
Raymond James there. Coming up, we'll
catch up with the former White House
senior adviser Amos Hawkstein as
Venezuela's new leader is sworn in.
Plus, Danny has your morning movers. AA
shares higher after announcing a
partnership [music] with Nvidia. The
stock is up 23%.
[music]
>> [music]
>> counting you down to the open and bound
with equity futures shaping up as
follows. Just about unchanged on the S&P
500 on the NASDAQ positive by 0.1% after
snapping a 5day slide in yesterday's
session. [music] The fun and games
happening over in Asia. Asia tech is
absolutely flying. Taiwan semi Samsung
year today. Samsung year today I think
is up like 14%.
>> [music]
>> What a run already for 2026 and it is uh
January 6th.
>> There's a lot of focus right now on the
memory capabilities of Samsung. Also a
real focus in the hardware and could you
see the Android [music] supersede the
iPhone? Android is the bestselling
smartphone in the world. It might
actually end up being the iPhone. But
nonetheless, they are getting an edge
when it comes to artificial intelligence
and actually deploying it. That I think
people are watching closely.
>> Big year for big tech in the last 12
months worldwide for that matter. Big
year for bonds as well. Treasuries
perform very nicely. 2-year maturity,
yields lower in line with the Federal
Reserve move. [music] 10-year maturity
as well. 10 year the shining light. The
US 10year, the rest of the world, not
great, yields higher. [music] The US
tenure down something like 40 basis
points last year. This morning, 4170.
[music]
>> Yeah. And the question that a lot of
people have is, can it continue,
especially with Fed rate cuts? Do
[music] you have this disinflation that
Emily Roland was talking about tied to
housing, tied to gasoline prices, or do
you start to see a divergence where you
see that steepening yield curve, the
salesai [music] view of the world? I
will say the 30-year yield's been really
notable and I understand it marches to
its own drop leakage there,
>> but it's been leakage and it's [music]
been really climbing higher despite the
rally in the rest of the majority parts.
>> Can the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
keep getting what he wants, which is a
10-year yield closer to four than five?
[music]
>> That's what he's going to try. I know he
he says he's what? He's America's bond
salesman. Top bond salesman.
>> That's how he decides his job. That's as
long as he stays at that gig. The
president had [music] his way, he'd be
moving over to to a different portfolio.
>> We're still waiting to see if he um
ultimately says yes and goes over to the
Federal [music] Reserve.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, if things get
messy enough, it might be a good exit
strategy
>> possibly. Yeah. Are you saying if
there's more Venezuelans, we might get
Besson down at [laughter]
>> 100%. Absolutely. Things get messy
enough, not my problem. Also, job
security. Yeah, I mean a lot of lot of
possibilities there.
>> The whole thing, you know, the speech
circuit afterwards as well. I just like
>> the art at the Federal Reserve.
>> Not that he needs the money, but like
you just mint money after you've been
the Fed chair.
>> Yeah. Not that he needs to do that, but
I speeches.
>> I think at a certain point though, it's
about something else. It's having a seat
at the table. So, which seat at the
table? And if sometimes you want to exit
stage,
>> you're going to be the most powerful man
in finance. [music] Whatever room,
whatever table you're sitting around, it
doesn't matter who's around it with you.
>> He likes signing the checks.
>> Do you? like [music] that his signature
on the billed
>> but that's done that right
>> it's true you've been there done that
you can move on to the next thing
>> money's in circulation okay yields up
two basis points 41789 on tends as we
count you down to the opening bers let's
get you some single names some morning
movers here's Danny with more hey Danny
>> hey John kicking things off with some of
the announcements we've heard at CES in
Vegas
a new autonomous driving vehicle is what
they're working on and they're going to
be using some of the technology from
this company Ava which [music] makes LAR
technology I Just want to point out yes
it is up nearly 24 1.5% but this is
basically a micro cap company. So all
things said that's not a huge move even
so uh it is moving on that Nvidia
announcement. Also an announcement in
tech this morning. Zeta which is an
enterprise marketing company announced
that it would be integrating open AI
technology uh to give their clients. So
those shares are up nearly 11%. We're
back in that world where you make an AI
announcement and your shares do well.
Finally a little bit of deal news.
sources telling Bloomberg that one
stream may be entering a take private
with HG, that's the Europebased [music]
private equity fund. Uh shares have been
down 35% year to date for this finance
software maker. So they are jumping just
about [music] 23% in the pre-market.
John
>> Danny, thank you. Thank you very much.
That stock is flying. I was just
reminded of that Minutuchin photo. Do
you remember that?
>> Yes, I do. With his wife
>> the sign of the money.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that was that was
incredible. Was that with the big Yep.
With his wife with the jack with the
gloves. And how about Jack Lou's
signature? I'll still never forget that.
Just the zeros. I love that.
>> What was that about? [music]
>> I, you know, he's been asked about that
many times.
>> I've I've asked him about that.
>> Honestly, you know, clearly it's not a
strong suit. I can relate. [laughter]
>> Evidently, on a radar this morning,
elsewhere, Nvidia and AMD highlighting
the insatiable demand for AI computing
power. Both companies unveiling new
chips and software at CES in Las Vegas,
saying AI will require a massive
increase in global computing capacity
within 5 years. Elsewhere, Venezuela's
government swearing in Darcy Rodriguez
as acting president following the
capture of Maduro. Meanwhile, heavily
armed security forces are roaming the
capital city of Caracus, detaining
journalists and stopping drivers to
check their phones. And finally,
President Donald Trump telling NBC the
US may subsidize efforts by all
companies to rebuild Venezuela's energy
industry. Sourc is telling us here at
Bloomberg News that energy secretary
Chris Wright plans to speak with
executives about the proposal later this
week. Yeah. And that it will take 18
months to actually accomplish a rebuild.
Something that, as you pointed out
earlier, is a quite ambitious time
schedule. This is going to be a real
question. What is the conversation like
with the oil majors? Oil major stocks
have been flying. You saw the biggest
two-day pop in the sector going back to
April of 2023. It's going to be
expensive. What kind of assurances do
they need? Unclear still whether they're
on board with this because they haven't
really had those discussions yet. The
fact that the energy secretary is poised
to speak with them gives you a sense of
where they are in this process.
>> I think one thing that the oil companies
do want to see is potentially the funds
they already were owed decades ago from
expropriations
under the Hugo Chavez regime. They want
to make sure that they are going to be
compensated already what was owed to
them before they go in and start
investing billions of dollars
>> and making a a multi-deade commitment.
You need some serious clarity before you
do that. Let's build on this story. the
US asserting control over the Latin
American country of Venezuela.
>> We have an oil embargo in Venezuela. For
them to do any kind of commerce, they
need our permission. We have our massive
fleet, our Amada still present there. Um
this is an active and ongoing uh US
government military operation and so of
course we set the terms and conditions.
>> Joining us now is Amos Hogstein, the
managing partner at TWWG Global and the
former White House senior adviser. Amos,
a good friend of this program over the
over the years. Thank you for making
time for us this morning. I want to lead
on your extensive experience in
Washington DC and not just sort of get
tempted by the story playing out years
ahead. I want to get your thoughts on
what took place over the weekend. Were
these ideas thrown around in the Biden
administration? Were they ever
considered? And what was your reaction
to what you saw take place?
>> Uh, so first it's happy new year. It's
good to be back on the show. Uh no, we
we did not consider uh taking a military
action uh and kidnapping uh Maduro. Uh
we also Venezuela is a is an annoyance
to the United States national security.
It's not a threat to us um in any way.
Uh and I think there's a lot of ways to
control it. Uh in fact, I'd led an
effort to get Chevron uh licensed back
in Venezuela in order to get uh
Americans released and to do other
things. So, we've always had a
conversation about Venezuela because of
its uh both its support for terrorism,
uh its support for bad actors, and the
fact that it was a uh oil producing
state.
>> There was a bounty though on Maduro's
head under the Biden administration. So,
what was going to be the timeline and
the goal to potentially get rid of him?
Look, Emory, we had uh very active
discussions uh with the Venezuelans
um some direct talks, some through
mediators uh about moving Maduro out of
office. We did not recognize him as the
legitimate leader of Venezuela. We did
recognize the opposition having won the
election. Uh and the idea was that if
but it wasn't about Maduro, it was about
the entire regime uh was illegitimate.
And look, at the end of the day, if you
take Maduro out and you stay with Deli
and the rest of the regime, uh you
haven't really done much uh because he's
out. Uh but you haven't they could have
announced he's out and we're now
supporting the opposition or we're now
supporting elections uh over the next 60
90 days uh in order to give the
Venezuelan people what they what they
deserve, which is to have their own
elected officials. Uh, so I think now
it's a it's a some kind of a puppet
regime. We have to see how that how that
will all work out.
>> Do you think Deli Rodriguez is someone
oil companies could work with?
>> I mean, look, she's been responsible for
the oil file uh in addition to being
vice president. Her brother is obviously
a power player uh by being the uh he
runs a lot of Venezuela through his role
at the legislature. I think they can
work with her. I don't think the issue
is can they work with her. They can have
at the end of day they can work with
anyone. Uh almost the issue is going to
be what is the legal structures? What is
the clarity? Uh when Donald Trump's
gone, are they going to get sued? Uh do
they have legal authorities over
whatever it is that they're going to be
doing there? And do they want to do it?
Uh and Maria, I think you said it
earlier. You have Kico and Exxon that
have active legal cases worth billions
of dollars against Venezuela uh in US
courts and in international arbitration
courts. uh that has to be resolved. Uh
then you have to negotiate uh leases for
which fields are we talking about and
then you have to do the surveys. The
companies don't even know the condition
of these fields except for Chevron of
course. And and then you once you've
done all of that then you have to go in
and say okay do I want to invest and at
sub $60 oil how many people really want
to crush oil prices further? So, this is
a story when it comes to oil, this is a
story about 2029, 2030, 2031 as far as
bringing any meaningful barrels back.
Uh, for 2026,
you're probably talking a couple of
hundred thousand barrels a day coming
back on the market just to bring them
back to where they were uh a little
while ago from, let's say, 800,000 today
to a million. And then if you remove
sanctions, you can get probably in 2027
or so to do I know 1.2 1.3. That's the
story over the next couple years.
Anything beyond that uh beyond that
volume, we'll have to wait a few years.
>> Well, the president says and he's
signaling potentially the US government
could subsidize the oil company's
involvement. As he says that, does that
signal that they will lift sanctions?
>> Well, I think it's I don't know. I I
don't want to predict that you have to
lift some of the sanctions because you
have to let the oil out. I don't know
what it means for the American taxpayer
to pay multi-billion dollar companies to
invest in the infrastructure of a
foreign country. I I don't know how
that's America first. I don't think that
that seems like America last, but I I
don't know what it even means. And what
assurances are there? And remember, they
have to operate these companies not just
based on Donald Trump being president.
uh they could be facing in nine months
from now or a year from now from January
a Democratic House of Representatives.
They can see changes in elections. They
have to have clarity. So what is this
money and how long will it last for and
what form will it take? And still what's
my what am I what am I doing for this
money? So I think what's been absent
from this whole conversation clearly
wasn't thought out before the operation
is the Venezuelan oil story itself.
There are some barrels that you can get
fairly quickly with just repairs of of
the equipment. Uh for that you have to
lift sanctions. Uh and you can have
service companies going in. You can have
some inkind payments. Uh but then what
is left for Venezuela? These companies
are going to say, "I want to get paid
back my my debts.
>> I want to have guarantees that I get the
barrels of oil that I produce so I
recover my investment first." The US
government's probably going to say,
"These are not subsidy. These are loans
and they have to get paid back or some
kind of guarantees uh because the banks
won't want to guarantee this or finance
it.
>> Yeah.
>> And then so what's after all of that and
then they owe money and barrels to
China, a lot of money and and barrels to
China. They owe stuff to the Russians.
They have debts to the Indians. So where
do they where are the barrels going to
come to rebuild Venezuela? And if they
don't, if everybody get profits except
for the Venezuelan people and the
economy and it gets crushed further, now
we go into another cycle of a failed
state uh under our control uh in Latin
America with migration and all the other
issues that come with it.
>> Amos, there's a big question about the
next 6 months, the next year in
Venezuela. There's also a question of
what other regions of the world are
next. Do you think that what happened in
Venezuela with Nicholas Maduro really
sets up action in Iran?
Uh yes I I well I I'll take that back. I
think that there is action in Iran was
contemplated before before and
irrespective of Maduro. Uh I think uh
Prime Minister Netanyahu has wanted to
do another round of strikes uh in in
Iran uh because what the Iranians took
the lesson from the June war where both
Israel with some participation in the
United States attacked their nuclear
sites that as long as we don't do
anything on nuclear we can the Americans
can live with what we're doing. And so
they went back to rebuilding air
defenses. They went back to rebuilding
their missile production facilities.
drone uh manufacturing facilities and
they haven't and they thought that was
okay. The Israelis have come in uh and
asked last week in or 10 days ago in
Mara Lago asked President Trump for the
green light to be able to go after the
Iranians for their missile production
and now that's on the table and so there
are a lot of rumors that they got the
green light. I don't know if that's
true, but there's definitely preparation
both in Israel and in the US military at
the moment of looking at what does
designing what it looks like uh to have
another round of strikes. And I think
that the sort of the the medium rate of
of the protest is also could become some
kind of uh impetus or cover uh for these
strikes. So I do think that that sets it
up. That being said, the Madura capture
certainly uh gives momentum to the
argument of strikes in Iran.
>> It's one to watch. Amos, appreciate your
time as always, sir. Thank you. The
former White House senior adviser, Amos
Hogstein. Let's give an update on
stories worldwide. Let's check back in
with Yahara Anand for your Bloomberg
brief. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Denmark's prime minister
saying NATO will collapse if the [music]
US attacks Greenland. The warning coming
as President Trump re-ups his desire to
take over the island [music] nation.
Steven Miller, a top aid to the
president, telling CNN Greenland
rightfully belonged to the US and the
Trump administration could seize [music]
it if it wanted. Meanwhile, ABN InBev
will reacquire a nearly 50% stake in its
US metal container plants from a
consortium of institutional investors in
a deal estimated to be around $3
billion. The metal container plant
operations includes seven facilities
across six states. [music] Blubberg
Intelligence says the move to secure key
packaging assets in the US is likely as
a result of aluminum tariffs and shares
of Philippine fast food chain Jollibee
surging. The company planning to spin
off its international [music] business
and list on a US stock exchange. The
company owns several brands including
stores [music] that specialize in sweet
style spaghetti and crispy fried
chicken. That's your Bloomberg breathe.
John,
>> Italians everywhere. Oh, you hold a
second. You think that that's Italian?
>> No. No. I'm saying they're all just
shaking their head.
>> Yeah, exactly. Well, yeah. I was about
to say that like [laughter]
Italian culture taking over.
>> No, not at all.
>> Sweet style [music] spaghetti. Not at
all.
>> Is that something that you really
>> food crime? Food crime. Yara, thank you.
Up next, inflationary pressure.
Inflation continues to be an issue
because you have fiscal stimulus, you
have the effect of Fed easing, and you
have the AI capital spending all going
on at the same time that high-income
households keep spending. [music]
>> That conversation up next with Matt
Hornack of Morgan Stanley live from New
York. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Stocks are positive, just about up by
not even a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500.
Positive now by 0.2 on the NASDAQ under
surveillance this morning. Inflationary
[music] pressure,
>> the inflation pressures that we had
experienced have substantially
diminished. They have not diminished
enough to restore the Fed's 2% target.
And I I do think that were it not for
the inflation concerns, the tenure would
be below four right now. Inflation
continues to be an issue because you
have fiscal stimulus, you have the
effect of Fed easing, and you have the
AI capital spending all going on at the
same time that high-income households
keep spending. [music]
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Traders awaiting a fresh read on
inflation following a weaker than
expected print to close out last year.
Matt Horn back of Morgan Stanley
writing, "Payback from holiday related
weakness comes in January, so it is
reasonable to expect a firm inflation
reading early this year." Matt joins us
now for more. Matt, good morning and
happy new year.
>> Good morning. Happy New Year. It's good
to see you, sir. Let's talk about the
last year. I think the most surprising
thing last year was what didn't happen.
And what didn't happen was immense
tariff inflation pass through. Have we
escaped unscathed into 26?
>> Well, I I do think if you pull out a
microscope and you go deep into the
inflation basket, you will see effects
of tariffs in the numbers. That is
undoubtedly true. I think the issue with
last year was that the tariff factor
just overwhelmed economists on Wall
Street and sort of distracted from all
the other things that were going on in
the basket itself, which was
predominantly more disinflation than
inflation. And so net net what you ended
up getting was a string of inflation
reports that ended up surprising to the
downside. Our view is that that
continues. So that doesn't mean that
inflation won't pick up in the first
quarter of this year. Uh but it does
suggest that if inflation continues to
surprise to the downside, then this
group of individuals on the FOMC who
have staked out ground that they're not
cutting because of inflation, you could
easily see them change their tune if
they're consistent in their reaction
function.
>> Can you see ongoing disinflation with
Fed rate cuts? In other words, will two
or three rate cuts potentially alter the
course of the disinflation you expect?
>> Well, this is where you have to bring in
that famed long and variable lag with
which monetary policy works. I don't
think it's reasonable to expect that a
25 basis point rate cut in December is
going to really affect the economy in
the next 3 months. Uh most economists
and market participants would rather
look at financial conditions. Now, if
you look at financial conditions, what
you will see is that they have eased.
They've been easy actually for quite
some time. That has not stopped the
labor market from continuing its slow
and gradual weakening. Uh, which does
raise questions about the effect of
financial conditions on the economy
today.
>> What if you have a jobless recovery,
which is something that we see right
now, continue where you don't see the
labor market recovery. You do see
certain costs associated with the
buildout of AI continue to increase.
Look at copper, look at aluminum, look
at all of the precious metals. How do
you square that with something that is
both positive for bonds and positive for
risk assets?
>> Well, it's called productivity in the
end. And what we saw in the third
quarter GDP report um not entirely yet
because we don't have some of the
underlying data that we would like. But
the implication of that report was that
productivity growth accelerated from the
second quarter to the third quarter and
it had already accelerated from the
first quarter to the second quarter. So
if we are seeing this longlost
productivity boom show up today, then
what that hints at is a disinflationary
style growth factor in the marketplace.
And that's why I go back to inflation.
If productivity is strong and unit labor
costs continue to decelerate, which they
have been, then we are going to see
inflation continue to move back to the
Fed's 2% goal.
>> That's the framework for the economy.
Let's fold that into the bond market.
How instructive is the spread between
Fed funds and long rates? What does that
tell you at the moment?
>> Yeah, well, it tells me that generally
speaking, the curve is still pretty darn
flat. Uh, of course, there are parts of
the curve that are steep and the curve
has been steepening over the course of
the past year, but when you look at the
level of yields further out the curve
and the funds rate, arguably it's still
pretty darn flat. And so that has
ultimately been one factor that has led
us to believe that these rate cuts that
we're forecasting for the next couple of
meetings is will continue to steepen out
the yield curve. And that's been our big
theme for the past year is a steeper
curve, much steeper than people expect.
But the bulk of the hard work's done at
the front end of the curve or do you
expect some further leakage that Lisa
and I were talking about earlier at the
long end?
>> Yeah. So the the bare steepening of the
curve is something that occurs on any
given day but it does not occur over the
course of time. Uh we rarely see
sustained bare steepenings of the yield
curve. What tends to happen is on a
given day it might bear steepen but over
the course of time you're actually
getting a bull steepening of the curve.
That's exactly what has happened since
the end of 2023 is we've had a much
steeper yield curve driven by two-year
yields coming down alongside the Fed
funds rate.
>> A sustained bear steepening could come
about if there was some legitimate
fiscal concerns that you couldn't bury
with lower interest rates on a policy
rate. Is that something on the radar?
>> Not for this year. Uh
in most years you'll get investors that
talk about supply. They get concerned
about the deficit to GDP ratio or the
debt to GDP ratio. Academics love to
write about this topic and yet they seem
to always be
>> not just academics. Wrong. [laughter]
>> Well, this is pretty academic.
>> Well, no, I'm actually Google trending
von vigilante to see how far it's fallen
off. Nobody cares anymore, but I care. I
do care. I think that this is something
that people are watching. I think it's
going to be the term structure. That's
what I think people will be watching.
Well, you're going to need some
surprises on the supply front. You're
going to need investor expectations,
which are pretty set in stone at the
moment, to change in a way that gets
bond yields higher. Um, we don't we
don't see that happening in 2026. Maybe
in 2027 when we think the Treasury will
have to increase coupon bond issuance,
maybe you get concerns, but not for this
year.
>> Matt, good to see you as always. Thank
you, sir. Matt Hornbeck if Morgan
Stanley Bremo, [music] you've got to
wait another year at least, apparently.
All I can say is that Google trended it
and it said not enough data to show
which gives you quite the sense
>> might get a little surveillance spike
now.
>> Exactly.
>> Much sharp on the chart. Coming up on
the program, Lizan Saunders of Charles
swap, Bloomberg's Ed Lllo, Andrew
Holdenhorse of City Plus, Troy Gayeski
of [music] Future Standard. The third
hour of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
[music]
We don't think the Fed will cut again
under J power.
>> We think three cuts this year is the
best guess.
>> We could continue to get strong growth
like this. We might not see another rate
cut through 2026.
>> The real weakness is likely to come in
the second half of the year.
>> The economy will continue to grow
through the end of the decade.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh. Lisa
Abramowitz and Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 adding to two
days of gains on the S&P [music] run up
by 0.06%
on the Nasdaq up by 0.25. The week gets
a lot busier as it grows older. Tons of
economic data through the week, building
up to payrolls Friday and during the
week, a little bit later today, in fact,
[music] later this morning, about 2
hours away, the agenda setting meeting
between the president and House
Republicans. That's one to watch for the
year ahead.
>> Oh, big time. Because ultimately, you
don't only get potential insight about
Venezuela, but you also get insight
about the fiscal agenda at a time when
there still is a government shutdown on
the table. I mean, can you imagine that
that comes back? It's sort of like which
which bingo card do you have uh going at
any given time? But also what they're
planning to do [music] about healthcare
and what they're planning to do with
tariffs given the fact that
affordability still is or was front and
focus healthcare [music] tariffs whether
or not the Supreme Court is going to
strike down AIPA saying that's illegal.
Housing at one point there was talk
about potentially having a mortgage that
could be malleable and move to open up
the housing market. affordability
according to [music] Trump's top
pollster met with Republicans and he
said this is your number one issue ahead
of the midterm elections. Now of course
this is falling just days after the
United States had [music] this mission
and had Maduro captive. So before they
get all into that they have to talk
about Venezuela because also they
[music] don't want an aggressive foreign
policy to derail their message which was
this year supposed to be focused on
domestic issues
>> and it starts with tax refunds. just how
[music] big are those tax refunds going
to be and how much is that going to
change the trajectory for this economy
this year?
>> Yeah, not only with respect to growth
but also inflation, right? I mean, if
you have all the retailers saying that
they're going to implement the tariff
adjusted price increases and you have
people with income to spend, at what
point do you start to get that
inflationary impulse? Look, everyone
seems to be not including recession
anywhere in their timelines in any
capacity, which is the reason why every
single analyst out there has a higher
S&P to a target for the end of this
year. The question is what could
potentially disrupt that? Does that
concern anybody? And does that come with
just that blind eye toward what's going
on geopolitically?
>> The tax refunds. The one thing I will
say is some people said that already
consumers were using that money cuz they
knew it was coming down the pipeline
during the holiday spending. [music]
And second, if you have higher health
care costs, do you really have that much
more in your pocket if you already that
is a non-negotiable must [music] spend
for this year? So, I think it'll be
interesting to see how much it actually
fuels this consumer. 10:00 a.m.
>> 10 a.m.
>> about 2 hours away. That soal closed
door meeting.
>> I don't know. Maybe they open it up.
>> You know, leaky that meet the president.
Has he ever had a real closed door
meeting
>> ever? I think he's had closed door
meetings that we then found out about
more than many other,
>> you know, having the camera [music] in
there. Come on. All right. Coming up
this Lisan Summers and Charles Schwab
with equities close to record highs.
Bloomberg's Ed Lllo joined us breaking
down comments from tech giants kicking
off the CES conference in Las Vegas. and
Andrew Honhorse of City expected a rise
in unemployment as we look ahead to
Friday's payrolls report. We begin this
hour with stocks flat as markets search
for direction. Lizanne Saunders of
Charles Swab writing the following. The
broadening out trade should have legs in
26 though not necessarily in a linear
fashion. I'm pleased to say that in the
studio is Lisan Saunders. Now Lisanne,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you. Thanks for being here.
You too.
>> How is the stage set for the 493 versus
the seven?
>> So I I think it's the it's the
trajectory of earnings that matters. I I
think one of the mistakes that investors
often make is they'll look at at data,
comparative data at a snapshot in time
and they'll compare level. So if you if
you take the MAG 7 as a cohort and you
look at earnings growth rate, even by
the end of this year, it'll still be
higher than the other 493, but
directionally it's heading down and
directionally the other 493 is heading
up. And that it it brings up what I've
said for my 40 years doing this, which
is better or worse often matters more
than good or bad. And I I think that's
one of the fundamental underpinnings for
some of this broadening out.
>> So let's talk about the contribution of
the MAX 7. You detailed this in your
recent note. They're the big
contributors. Is that something you've
got to mitigate as you look at the S&P
500 and how it's weighted for this year?
>> I I think that one of the things that we
find that mistakes that investors make
is they conflate contribution with price
performance. So they they they think
generically of of cohorts like the
Magnificent 7 and they're constantly
barrageed with they're the primary
outperformers. They're the big some of
among the biggest contributors, but
they're not the price outperformers. So
Nvidia, the poster child for all of this
over the past year is the number one
contributor to S&P returns by virtue of
the multiplier of its cap size. But for
calendar year 2025,
it was ranked 75th in terms of price
performance. So 74 stocks performing
better than Nvidia, number one
contributor. It it I think it it lends
this impression to investors that the
only way to do well, however you define
that, is to be concentrated in those
names. That's an institutional problem.
If you're benchmarked against the cap
weighted S&P on a quarterly basis, you
are at the mercy of the construction of
the indexes, but that's not an
individual investor problem. And um
what's also interesting, the best
performers, we went kind of old school
last year, you know, SanDisk and uh
Western Digital. I just bought my
daughter for Christmas a uh an actual
digital camera um because she likes the
photo quality better and unwrapped it
and there was you know SanDisk on and
and this is not a recommendation. I
don't cover individual [laughter]
stocks.
>> It's just a story that disclosure out
there. It's very story but um I I just
think that the opportunities are fairly
ripe. And what was also interesting
about last year and we've talked about
this before is the churn and rotation
under the surface. You had a very strong
year for the S&P 500, but the average
member had bare market level maximum
draw downs. It just happened on a
rotational basis. I think that fed the
opportunity for investors to look
outside of that small concentration of
mega cap names and and that's what I
think has legs in uh in 26. A lot of
people when they ask uh when they're
asked about the broadening out trade
start talking about US versus the rest
of the world and they start saying if
you really want to diversify go to
Europe, go to Asia, go elsewhere. How
much is that part of the proposition
versus trying to identify the best
stories?
>> Yeah, I I think international
diversification makes a lot of sense.
We've been espousing that for a while
and um suggesting to investors that they
have international diversification for
many years. You just had to constantly
say I'm sorry. And now to some degree
you get to say you're welcome.
[laughter]
So, you know, clearly it worked in the
last year, but you do tend to go through
multi-year secular cycles. Not us is the
only game in town 100% of the time in a
linear fashion and and uh you know,
discard all the international. But I
think that we're maybe in one of those
waves where not necessarily that
international is going to consistently
outperform, but as a diversifier, it
adds benefits. How much is this driven
by the rate cutting cycle and the idea
of the dollar weakening? I mean, how
much is that really the driving factor
of outperformance?
>> I I think that the the dollar currency
fluctuations is definitely a big part of
it in terms of international. I think
the uh interest rate side of things is a
little bit more of a driver of why we
saw bids down the cap spectrum. Now, all
the way down into the unprofitable
segment of small caps, I I think that
trade you want to fade. I think you want
to lead lean into the profitable piece
of small caps. So, but you're right to
point both of those out as a driver of
international and small caps
respectively. We started this hour
talking about this meeting the
president's going to have at House GOP.
How they sell the economy ahead of the
midterms? You say the viberession lives
on. What are the contours of that kind
of economy?
>> Well, it's the it's the differential
between the soft economic data and the
hard economic data. And that's been with
us now since the the CO era. It's kind
of part of the K-shaped nature that we
uh that we talk about um confidence
relative to actual spending. It's hard
to see what breaks that divide between
sort of daer expectations versus the
reality on the ground. probably
only starts to converge as a function of
I think the labor market either more
deterioration in the labor market that
then has the hard data catching down to
the soft data but I think continued
strength in the labor market I think
eventually could cause some of that soft
economic data to catch up to the hard
economic
>> well you also say that the labor market
could be a tailwind or headwind for 2026
how could it be both um well it depends
on what direction uh it goes. So there
there's so many facets of the labor
market that have come into to play not
least being the tiein to immigration and
the implications that that has had for
labor force growth and what that has
meant for the unemployment rate and its
trajectory looking quite unique in this
cycle relative to past cycles. Normally
when the unemployment rate inflects and
starts to move higher, it tends to
consistently move higher. This flattish
kind of trudging along uh unemployment
rate is very unique in history. And I
think that the the labor market really
holds the key clearly holds the key to
Fed policy. I think it holds a key to
confidence and to uh spending. I think
the tie-in and maybe that sounds like
I'm stating the obvious uh but I think
it's been more crucial in this
environment. Amarita, your point about
consumption patterns and whether in this
case what you mentioned before front
running the expected gain from uh tax
policy um or just confidence in the
labor market that has allowed consumers
to keep savings rate fairly low and
continue to spend. It's because of that
confidence in the labor market. So it it
I'm not going to try to forecast what
the jobs backdrop is going to look like,
but I think that could move the needle
very significantly on the economy.
>> Could it move and influence the equity
market? Because what was curious last
year is that we saw unemployment inflict
higher and the equity market just kind
of shrugged and carried on rallying. Is
it important? Is it instructive for what
happens with equities? Well, last year
was also a a concentrated year and very
much driven by the AI side of what was
going on in the economy, the capex side.
I continue to think that we've got, you
know, you mentioned earlier no talk of
recession. We've had plenty of
recessions within the economy. It's just
happened on a rolling basis. We're still
arguably in a manufacturing recession to
the extent you use, you know, ISM
manufacturing index as a proxy for that.
We've just had pockets of strength that
have been dominant elsewhere. That
that's been enough to prevent the
economy from having an acrosstheboard
kind of recession. But the rolling
recession idea and rolling recoveries
and rolling expansions, that's been with
us since the quick aftermath of the the
COVID cycle and I think that's something
that will continue. So you you have to
you have to peel a layer of the onion
back a little bit to get a sense of
truly what the economy is doing. It's
not monolithic in this environment.
>> Lzan, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thanks for dropping by. Looking
forward to navigating the year ahead
with you. Liz Anne Sanders there of
Charge Swap. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to you
for more. Hey Hra.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump says he
wants US oil companies to play a key
role in rebuilding Venezuela. [music]
The president saying oil majors could be
up and running in the country in less
than 18 months and the US government
could subsidize their efforts. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
[music] energy secretary Chris Wright
plans to speak with oil executives in
Miami this week. Meanwhile, copper is
extending [music] its rally above
$13,000 as investors bet on a tighter
market. [music]
Possible US import curves, rising
demand, and production constraints are
fueling bullish calls on the industrial
[music] metal. US inventories of copper
also surging with 44 straight days of
net inflows in COX [music]
tracked warehouses
and Manhattan home sales jumping 5% in
the final quarter of 2025 compared to
the year before sales getting a boost
from an increase in co-op deals a sign
that follow fall falling borrowing costs
enticed some rate sensitive buyers back
[music] to the market still buyers who
could pay in all cash dominated
accounting for 65% % of deals. That's
your Bloomberg [music] brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on a program, the
morning calls, plus Bloomberg's Ed
Ledllo breaking down comments from the
tech giants kicking off the CES
conference over in Las Vegas. That
conversation just around the corner.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> What we think is going to happen in 2026
is you're going to go from the
inflection year uh 2025 for AI adoption
to the year where it accelerates when
global [music] corporates realize that
if they don't find ways to drive
revenues and cut costs through using AI,
they will be at a competitive
disadvantage.
>> That was Julian Emanuel of Evercore asai
looking ahead to the year ahead for
2026. Taking the temperature of things
so far, Brammo, early days for this
year, but just in look ahead season,
it's a bit odd this year, isn't it?
There's not that overwhelmingly large
consensus trade that people want to
throw mud against. It just feels like a
slow choppy grind to nowhere
potentially.
>> What kind of conviction can anybody have
in the macro backdrop right now? You
have a lot of micro predictions whether
it comes to specific metals, specific
tech companies or specific parts of the
industry. But other than that, it's not
like someone's coming out saying I see
rates at zero and the [music] you know
small caps to the moon. It doesn't have
that level of conviction.
>> A big fat directional trade. Exactly.
>> A lot of skepticism out there at the
moment. Still even with those big price
targets from certain banks. [music]
Equity futures on the S&P positive by
close to a tenth of 1% within 0.5% of
alltime highs on the S&P 500. on the
NASDAQ up by 0.24. That's some of the
price action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, JP Morgan upgrading
mobileite to neutral, [music]
seeing a higher predictability of growth
outcomes in 26. That stock is up by
close to 5%. Your second call from
Truist initiating coverage of Core Week
with a hold rating believing it is a
leader in providing AI cloud
infrastructure. That stock is up by
2.7%. [music]
And finally, Evercore, reiterating an
outperform rating on Nvidia with a
street high price target, naming it a
top pick for 26. That stock is up by
0.8%.
Sticking with tech, [music] the AI race
heating up over at CES.
>> The amount of computation necessary for
AI is skyrocketing. The demand for
Nvidia GPUs is skyrocketing. The race is
on for AI. Everybody's trying to get to
the next level.
>> With all of that user growth, we have
seen a huge surge in demand in the
global compute infrastructure. We don't
have nearly enough compute for
everything that we can possibly do.
>> Programming note, don't miss AMD CEO
Lisa Sue right here on Bloomberg TV at
11:00 a.m. Eastern time speaking with
Bloomberg's Ed Lllo. Plus, at 1 p.m.
you'll be catching up with the CEOs of
Nvidia and Seamans. [music] Ed, I'm
pleased to say, joined us now for more.
Ed, looking forward to this. Your day is
absolutely stacked, my friend. What's on
the top of the agenda for you and the
team?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's a lot of fighting
talk from both Jensen and Lisa, right?
But but it's the same questions, you
know, what is the real quantifiable
demand for this year? Do they expect the
capital expenditures of the hyperscalers
that are the bulk of their business to
to increase? And then, you know, what's
kind of interesting, John, I heard what
you were saying about the direction of
trade. You know, I I appreciate Nvidia
and AMD are both up a few ten of a
percent in the pre-market, but during
those keynotes last night, particularly
Nvidia, the market really struggled for
direction because it didn't really
understand what the main headline was um
for 2026 because we came to Vegas
thinking, "All right, this is the first
official working day of the year. You
have the CEO of the world's biggest
company and most important company
probably going to tell us something."
And and in reality, he didn't. beyond
the broad strokes of um you know the AI
story that that he's been telling for
the last couple of years is still
intact.
>> In many ways that I think for some
investors they feel like the risk
factors are elsewhere after getting
punched in the face by Deepseek around
this time last year. The focus also on
the likes of Open AI and something
that's come up repeatedly in my early
conversations for the year. Are the
funding needs of OpenAI setting the tone
for the whole trade? Ed, are you hearing
the same thing? Yes. And you know,
OpenAI continues to to consider how it
can raise more capital. Actually, during
the AMD keynote last night, Greg
Brockman, the president, you know, went
on stage with with Lisa Sue and and
continue to talk about how OpenAI is
also compute constrained. They don't
have the capacity they need. And that is
the story that they're using to convince
the private markets, we must raise this
capital because we need it to buy the
chips and or or at least in some
mechanism install more data center
capacity. um you know to to your point
particularly on the Nvidia side there
was a news headline which was sort of a
little tepid for the markets but them
confirming that Vera Rubin which is
their next generation platform is in
full production it's it's a repetition
of what they said in August and then
again in November but it does give the
market some confidence because the main
reason we care why Nvidia or AMD can
bring out a new generation of GPU or
system every year is that every It
lowers the cost of running AI models
which if you are open AAI or Microsoft
who are going to be some of the first
users of it is critically important if
the market's going to believe that the
economics of all of this will work out.
you know, you can't go on investing for
years and years without showing a
return. And and um you know, in short, a
a high performance computer system like
Vera Rubin is able to generate tokens at
a tenth of of the cost that Blackwell
can, you know, and that does change the
economics behind um using AI models at
scale.
>> And I love the the way you connected
these two stories, the worries about the
financing needs of open AI and the push
to greater efficiency and reducing the
cost of using some of the compute. I
wonder how much Nvidia's push into uh
more efficiency highlights how much it's
arrival with Google and how much uh
Google has really made inroads in a
material way.
>> Yeah, I you know I I don't want to you
know give it away to either Jensen or
say it's a question we probably should
ask. what they will say and have said is
that the the Google TPU story is it's a
great product that's kind of a bit niche
and both Nvidia and AMD would say the
thing that's so good about our our
technology is it's versatile. It can be
used at scale. It's easy for engineers
to use in combination with software. And
the market hasn't bought that either.
you know, every time Bloomberg's
reported a big deal with TPUs, you see
Nvidia and AMD stock fall pretty
significantly. So um you know to your
point I think that that that Jensen was
trying to convince people on stage that
you know Nvidia is basically moving
faster and has the scale that wards off
that competition but it still lingers
that basically if uh companies are so uh
compute constrained of course they're
going to look for other options and
there will come a time where they'll
look and say what is the most
economically viable option for me. You
know, you talk about how we didn't hear
anything new, but Amory and I were just
thinking the same thing, which is we did
hear about uh a smart car, reasoning
cars, uh the Alpamo, that could
potentially create a a new scenario
where your car tells you that you're
just wrong and stop backseat driving. I
mean, at a certain point, Ed, why isn't
that a bigger story here?
>> Yeah, you know, the video that you're
showing, by the way, it's it's a great
video. It's a Mercedes uh CLA vehicle
and it's running on completely Nvidia
hardware and Nvidia software. And what's
so interesting about it is that on stage
Jensen claimed this was a first. It's
the first automotive or or autonomous
driving model that does reasoning. But
you've just seen it go past Chestnut
Street in San Francisco and it will
proceed down and take a left on
Broadway. That's the same route that I
drive every single day using Tesla's
full self-driving, which which is
exactly the same thing. And so what was
interesting is when Nvidia released that
piece of information, Elon Musk ended up
engaging about it on X because he made
the point like, hey, we kind of already
do that. And I find that very
interesting because Nvidia and and Tesla
along with Elon Musk, other companies
are are kind of core partners. Nvidia is
very committed to to the next phase of
AI, which is autonomous driving and
robotics. But I thought it was
interesting that their claim was we've
done something new here which was
instantly met by push back albeit from
those that are kind of hardcore Tesla
supporters.
>> I saw the Elon Musk tweet he had an
emoji that was laughing and he says
we're already doing this and it's easy
to get to 99% then super hard to solve
the long tail of the distribution. Is
Nvidia basically now in competition with
Tesla?
>> Uh it's the question if I get the
opportunity I hope to ask. One thing I'd
say, you know, detail matters. In the
press release, frankly, this is a level
two system. It's an advanced driver
assistance system, not full autonomy.
And the way that Nvidia and and Mercedes
packaged it was as a full autonomous
system. It may well be one day. Um, but
at the end of the day, the principal
technology differences are really
important and investors do understand
this, right? Tesla uses only cameras. It
does not use liar, radar, ultrasonics or
other sensors. And its argument for that
is that at scale it is the most viable
economically speaking. You know it's
cheap whereas all those sensors cost a
lot of money. And so you know on stage
Jensen was talking about the idea that
there's this very sophisticated comput
system that Nvidia is providing to
Mercedes goes in the car has all these
sensors. That's a lot of money when you
buy a vehicle.
>> Just quickly I've got 15 seconds since
we're talking about it. When's the new
Rivian out?
>> Yeah the Rivian maybe maybe by the first
half of this year beginning of the
second half of this year. We'll see.
>> Pretty cool. Looks pretty cool. Midsize
SUV. You've seen that. The new one.
>> I think the Rivians are really quite
good looking.
>> New one coming out this year. It looks
very, very cool.
>> I would agree with that.
>> You in the market?
>> Might be in the market.
>> Okay. I thought so. The way you asked
that, it was like planning [laughter]
your personal question. All right. Give
me a break. Don't miss that conversation
later. AMD CEO Lisa Sue right here at
Bloomberg TV 11:00 a.m. Eastern time
with Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo on Bloomberg
Technology. Later on, the Nvidia boss
[music] Jensen at 1:15 Eastern time. Ed
Bloodllo there over at CES in Las Vegas.
Coming up on [music] the program, we'll
catch up with Andrew Horse of City
expecting a rise in unemployment.
Looking ahead to Friday's payroll
report. Plus, Danny has some morning
movers. Microchip shares rising after
[music] strong third quarter sales.
[music]
60 minutes away from the opening bell.
Equities just about unchanged on the S&P
500. on the NASDAQ pushing higher in
yesterday's session, snapping a 5day
slide, up again this morning by close to
0.2%.
Let's get you some morning movers. Danny
Burgerer has more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Shares of Microchip gaining
in the pre-market trade up nearly 4%
pre-announcing their earnings yesterday.
The semiconductor company seeing an
upgrade to their outlook, also rhyming
with what we heard from AMD's Lisa Sue,
that there is just off the charts demand
for anything AI related and chips and
semiconductors. So again, microchip
gaining [music] in the pre-market
session. Elsewhere in tech, AVA, it's a
micro cap company. So just take that big
move with a grain of salt. Up a quarter
this morning, 25.3% after Nvidia's
announcement at CES that they will be
moving into autonomous vehicles. They're
going to be using AVA's LAR technology
to power their future vehicles. So
again, those shares gaining. Finally,
Equifax, TransUnion, the credit
reporting bureaus down sharply this
morning. uh the Federal Housing Finance
Agency director Bill Pulsey putting on
X, writing on X, saying that he doesn't
understand the pricing of these [music]
credit unions and that they are inviting
scrutiny day by day. Equifax down 2.8%
as is TransUnion. John [music]
>> Danny, thank you. Looking forward to the
program with Danny Ber and Matt Miller
at about 30 minutes time to guide you
into the opening ball at 9:30 Eastern
time. Bit [music] of an update on the
president's get together with House
Republicans down in Washington DC. Set
to take place in about 90 minutes time.
Doesn't sound very closed doororish
anymore, does it?
>> So, so the whole retreat is all day and
that's supposed to be closed door, but I
guess his remarks at 10:00 a.m. are
going to be televised because Caroline
Levit, the press secretary, says, "Tune
in. You don't want to miss it
>> and then they retreat." Then it's closed
doors.
>> Yeah, I'm guessing. Okay. All right.
>> I mean, I guess that can change, too. I
guess maybe they could televise the
whole thing.
>> Everything that's talked about is going
to be leaked.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Look out for that later down in
the nation's capital. Let's turn to the
Federal Reserve. The new year means a
new set of voters on the FOMC. Mike
McKe's tracking that for us. Good
morning, Michael. a bit of a hawkish
tilt this year, right?
>> Bit of a hawkish tilt this year. We
don't need leaks from the Fed because
they pretty much tell us what they're
thinking. Uh we do have four new voters
uh from the regional banks rotating onto
the voting schedule and they're pretty
much all hawks with the exception of
perhaps Anna Pollson, Beth Hammock, Neil
Qashqari, and Lorie Logan have made it
clear they don't think that we really
need to cut rates in January. And we're
only at a 16% chance of that. maybe
because markets are looking at who is
going to be voting this year. Pollson
speaking a few days ago saying that she
thinks it's a finely balanced situation.
Uh one person who is not a voter this
year will be next year, but uh is making
his views known this morning, Tom Barkin
from Richmond, and he's also in that
finally balanced camp where he's not
taking a position either way. He's
somewhat optimistic, saying in a speech
just now that 2025's uncertainty is
bound to diminish. The fog should lift
and as firms build confidence in demand
and the policy environment that should
be good for hiring and investment. Then
he adds, but going forward policy will
require finely tuned judgments balancing
progress on each side of our mandate. So
the question is uh does the Barkin
scenario come true or not? Neil Qashqari
yesterday on CNBC saying he thinks
they're pretty close to neutral right
now. So he's not expecting a whole lot.
It'll all come down to what the data
tell us, the jobs report and CPI. And I
note this morning that we're a little
more optimistic on the jobs front.
Yesterday we were talking about an
estimate of 59,000 jobs created in
December. Now we're up to 65,000.
>> Big range, Mike. 155 is the high. The
low is 23. We can get into payrolls a
little bit later. Let's just stick on
the committee on the FMC. Mike, you've
tracked this committee, this institution
for decades. Do you sense we're breaking
out into a new regime, and I'm sure
you've heard some of the conversations
we've had on this program. There's a
sense from some people that are
appearing on the show that the
president's push for interest rates is
leading to some unintended consequences.
It's galvanizing every single voter on
the committee. And maybe this more
dovish core at the FOMC is going to be a
less effective dovish core because of
the push back you'll get as a
consequence.
>> Well, in the meantime is what I would
say. uh with uh the Fed and everybody
else waiting for the end of Jay Pal's
chairmanship. Uh we'll have to see what
develops from there. But I think the
real thing that people are forgetting is
we haven't had a situation where
interest rates were this high and it was
this questionable about whether you cut
or whether you hold uh as a decision.
And so now you're getting more uh
different views than you normally do
when either it's going to be uh just a
hold or just a cut or just a raise. So
it looks like there's more division but
I don't think it uh suggests a new
regime at all.
>> Matt McKe, thank you sir. With the
latest on what's going to happen with
the Federal Reserve and the data later
this week and the latest on this
committee and how things change with new
leadership later this year.
>> Well, that's I think the key, right? So
right now it might be that this is a
divided Fed because ultimately the data
is a roshock test in terms of how you
interpret it. later this year. It might
be more divided for other reasons when
we actually get a decision about the
Kevin
>> or
>> or or Scott Bessett if he wants if he
wants an exit strategy.
>> Yeah, Andrew Hodenhorse of City's got
things to say on the data and on that
too. In our base case, the unemployment
rate rises to 4.7% in the December jobs
report, continuing its trend higher and
keeping the Fed reducing policy interest
rates. Andrew joins us now for more.
Andrew, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Happy New Year.
>> Yeah, happy new year to you, too. That's
not such a happy new year for the labor
market, though. the drift towards five
continues.
>> We think so. And I think that, you know,
we're in the business of forecasting
these things on a monthly basis. There's
a lot of volatility. We have some
residual seasonality in the data. All
those things kind of obscure what's
going on. But if you just step back and
look at what this labor market has done
over the last two years, we've been
trending higher in the unemployment
rate. We've just been consistently
rate. So, we think that trend continues
this year. We do think that can happen
in the jobs report that we're going to
get this week with the participation
rate coming up a little bit. Maybe
that's going to push the unemployment
rate higher. But what I would really
emphasize is that that broad trend
towards loosening of the job.
>> Mike talked about the hawkish tilt as
the FOMC rotates and you get the
regional voters, the new ones coming on
board for a year. What is the credible
case to stay on hold? What is their case
at the moment?
>> So I think it's all about how
comfortable are you with the labor
market and then how much discomfort do
you have about inflation and then to
some extent financial conditions also
because financial conditions are easy.
They've been easy for some time. And
then on inflation, and this is where I
think people really differ. We're above
target on inflation. If you listen to
Chair Powell, he'll say 2.8% or so core
PCE inflation, but go ahead and subtract
about 50 basis points from that due to
tariffs. You're down to 2.3%. So, I
think there's a core of more doubbish
Fed officials that are looking through
that tariff inflation and are not that
concerned about inflation. Um, but
there's a group that are still concerned
about inflation. So, it's going to be
the jobs data that matter in terms of
are we becoming a little bit more
uncomfortable with the job market, this
very low hiring job market. And then on
the inflation data, and that could take
a number of months. Um, but we have a
clear slowing trend in shelter prices. I
I do think that some of those concerns
about inflation will dissipate over the
course of this year. They may rise first
before they dissipate later this year.
>> One thing that Richmond Fed uh President
uh Tom Barkin talked about was that this
is going to be clean data and that he's
looking forward to getting some clean
data. How much do you actually think
this data will be the first clean read
since the government shutdown?
>> So I think on the jobs report and on the
unemployment rate, this is really
important in terms of the
interpretation. A lot of people looked
at that November unemployment rate and
said, "Yeah, 4.6%." But maybe it got
boosted because of the government
shutdown. So even if we hold steady at
4.6% on the unemployment rate in the
data for December, I think people will
look at that and say, "Well, that was a
clean 4.6%." And we've heard different
Fed officials differ in terms of, you
know, how clean or not they think that
that number is. [clears throat] So yes,
I I do think that especially on the
inflation data. I think there are big
questions about the inflation data um
during the shutdown period, but on the
jobs data also, there are some lingering
questions. This jobs report will help to
resolve those.
>> And you think that it's going to resolve
it in terms of possibly even get getting
a Fed rate cut by the end of this month.
And I just wonder how far that will go
to bolstering a labor market that's
being affected by other issues outside
of any kind of monetary policy.
>> Yeah. Not not very far, right? So that
that's you cutting cutting interest
rates 25 basis points and doing it in
this month versus doing it later this
year. That's just not going to have a
huge effect on the macroeconomy. Um but
I think you're still watching the labor
market because you're you're looking at
three things. If the labor market is
loosening, it's telling you maybe you're
not really at neutral. maybe you need to
cut a little bit further. It's telling
you there's going to be less
inflationary pressure because we don't
have this wage pressure. We don't have a
tight labor market. And it's also
telling you that maybe I want to start
thinking about insurance. This is not
something we're really hearing from Fed
officials now, but maybe I want to think
about do I need to be at least at the
bottom of the range of neutral. Maybe
I'm going to need to go below neutral
because if you're actually getting to 5%
unemployment and I I think it's a very
obvious point, but one that's being
missed a little bit in some of the the
rhetoric around this. The unemployment
rate is moving higher gradually. It's
good that it's a gradual move and not a
sharp move. But if we just keep moving
gradually higher, we will hit 5% and
you'll keep going north of 5% and at
some point we'll say, you know, we
really have an issue with unemployment
in this country.
>> Andrew, when it comes to inflation, what
about healthc care inflation given the
fact that subsidies are rising?
>> Yeah. So, we we have this this this
really complex technical issue now with
the way that these healthc care
subsidies um are going to change as we
go into 2026. Um that could have some
direct effect on the CPI data. We don't
think it's going to have much of an
effect on on the PCE inflation data. Um
but in terms of just consumer cost,
right, this is a higher cost that
consumers will be facing, but I don't
think it will have a big effect on the
reported numbers.
>> So, when it comes to inflation, what is
the biggest concern then in terms of
policy? because everyone will talk about
tariffs but this year is also
healthcare. Do you think any of these
will have an impact?
>> I I think what I would be watching in
the inflation data are two things. One
is do we see this continued gradual
softening of services inflation? We're
seeing it most clearly in shelter. We're
not seeing it as clearly in non-shelter
services. So that's one kind question.
The other question is I I was mentioning
earlier, you know, Powell talking about
this 50 basis points due to tariffs.
Well, is that
is is is that strength that you have in
goods prices, is it really tariff
related or are there other factors that
are playing into higher goods prices? Is
that going to continue or is that going
to dissipate? Um, I don't know if policy
can do a lot to address those things and
and when people talk about
affordability, honestly, I think a lot
of what they're talking about is the
expense of buying a house, which has to
do with mortgage rates and that, well,
the Fed cutting interest rates will will
bring that down.
>> And also, Andrew, things are just bloody
expensive.
Jim Yenko sounded so English then,
didn't it? Jim Biano did a great job of
this over at Biano Research. The Fed
talks about oneoffs and one-time changes
because they're focused on the change.
The public is dealing with the price
level.
>> That's right.
>> And where prices are is just ridiculous.
Anyone trying to buy food or pay the
energy bill, it is absolutely
ridiculous. Do you think the Fed needs
to reconcile the differences within
between how they look at inflation and
how the public experiences it? I think
certainly in how they talk about that,
it's very important to kind of get the
rhetoric right around that because it is
true. I experienced that. You go to the
store and you're just shocked at how
much everything costs and that's I'm an
economist. I understand inflation. I
understand price level, but I still have
that emotional experience of going to
the store and realizing how expensive
everything is. So yes, the price level
is higher and I think that is something
that should be communicated more clearly
is that the the path forward um it's
going to be difficult to bring that
price level down, right? We're not
trying to generate deflation. Now, what
you would hope is that wages continue to
grow, right? And we we end up having
real growth in in real wage growth and
we are having some of that now, which is
a healthy thing. Um, but honestly, you
need years of that for people to feel
better about these prices.
>> Quick one to finish. The new Fed chair,
>> is his name Kevin? [laughter]
>> I think there's a high probability that
his name will be Kevin. And I think
that's about all we can say right
[laughter] now.
>> How cool. Andrew, thank you. Thank you
very much. Good to see you. Thank you.
And well done last year, by the I think
one of the more accurate forecasters of
the Federal Reserve, Andrew Honhorse
there of City Research. Let's give you
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey, Yhara.
>> Hi, John. European leaders and US
officials aiming to finalize an
agreement [music] on security guarantees
that include the possibility of American
boots on the ground in post-war Ukraine.
[music]
The talks in Paris will focus on how to
integrate capabilities recently proposed
by Washington with plans drawn up by the
so-called coalition of the willing
[music] that's made up of Ukraine's
allies. Meanwhile, Denmark's prime
minister saying NATO will collapse if
the US attacks [music] Greenland. The
warning coming as President Trump re-ups
his desire to take over the island
nation. Steven Miller, a top aid to the
president, telling CNN Greenland,
"Rightfully belong to the US and the
Trump administration could seize [music]
it if it wanted." And Amazon unveiling a
new line of artwork style TVs. The Ember
Art line is designed to resemble a piece
of framed art and will come in 10
different colors. It will be available
starting this spring in 55 and [music]
65 in sizes. The line starts at $899 for
the smaller version. And as for your
question, John, on whether it will
require a separate connection box, well,
current details suggest it won't, but
we'll have to wait on Amazon to release
full details on installation.
>> There you go. That's the game changer.
If there's no box there, Yahara, thank
you. Appreciate it.
>> You're looking at Rivians and you're
you're looking at box art. Really? I
mean, this is like, who is this person?
>> Just to like streamline [laughter] the
the living room a little bit, you know?
>> I I get it. I totally get it. And you
need to implement it correctly. [music]
Are you going to buy a licensing
agreement to get different artwork?
>> No. I'm sure you can just upload your
own photos, can't you? That would be
actually Wouldn't that make sense? I
guess we'll find out right here on
Bloomberg. [music] Okay, up next, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus, Troy
Gayeski of Future Standard breaking down
opportunities in private equity and
markets worldwide. [music]
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> We still see technicals and momentum in
the driver's seat. You almost have to
remove the macro from your brain right
now coming into the new year. We're
still watching, you know, some of this
macro weakness. The business surveys are
telling you things aren't great. But
meanwhile, the markets are saying get
ready. We're going to see a massive
cyclical expansion. The economy is going
to accelerate meaningfully this year. So
there's a major disconnect right now
between macro and markets.
>> How does that disconnect reconcile if at
all later this year? That was a
conversation with Emily Roland of John
Hancock a little bit earlier on. You can
catch that conversation when we upload
the full program to YouTube or on the
Blimbo terminal for that matter. As we
count down to the opening bell about 43
minutes away, the [music] price action
looks like this. Equity futures on the
S&P just about unchanged. The NASDAQ 100
positive by [music] 0.1%. The day ahead
and the week ahead for that matter looks
like this. At 9:45 Eastern time, US S&P
PMIs 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, [music]
President Trump giving remarks at the
House GOP retreat setting the agenda for
the year ahead going into the midterms.
Tomorrow, lots of data. ADP jolts and
ISM services. Thursday, another round of
jobless claims. Friday, the payrolls
report just around [music] the corner.
Let's talk about this market. Troy
Gerski of Future Standard writing, "In
an environment where public equity
valuations are stretched and it's very
difficult to find growth outside of mega
cap tech, middle market private equity
stands out as an oasis." Troy joins us
now for more. Troy, good morning and
happy new year.
>> Good morning, John.
>> Good to see you in the studio. Thanks
for coming in, buddy. Thank you. Let's
talk about setting the tone for markets
worldwide and in private markets for
that matter. To what extent does the
fate of one company, and I'm going to
say it, OpenAI, that one company set the
tone for the broader market?
>> Well, as we were discussing before, you
know, OpenAI has been at the cutting
edge of obviously infrastructure for the
complex, right? And that has driven
competitive pressure for the
hyperscalers who are historically
petrified of losing market share in
various areas to spend money at
predigious rates, right? the fact that
30 40 50 maybe even 60 basis points of
contribution to nominal GDP will come
this year. So they've been critically
important in in waking up the giants so
to speak. On a go forward basis though
the hyperscalers are going to drive more
and more of the outcomes we believe.
>> What I'm getting at really is the fate
of the public market. How tied is it to
what is happening in private markets and
vice versa.
>> Yeah. So, so there private markets tend
to have an advantage for funding early.
As you know, if you look back, you know,
15, 20 years, it was all about smallcale
funding and then eventually going public
and that allowed you to grow. Uh, as
private equity and private credit has
grown up, they've been the preferred
sources of financing. And then prior to
that, of course, in growth areas, you
have venture capital. So, so private
credit uh infrastructure has led the way
in terms of financing these projects.
And then now of course you have a little
more circular funding coming again from
you know the largest five companies in
the world.
>> There is this question though and I
think that um just to build on what John
is saying open AAI and their investment
has really fueled a lot of other
investment in infrastructure in data
centers has propped up the valuations of
it at a time when suddenly people are
looking for more efficiency. At what
point does that pose a significant risk
on a credit perspective to private
credit and infrastructure investments
this year?
>> Well, so I I think big picture, right?
If you're looking at the ROIC's that at
least are modeled out in in data centers
and and and to be fair, remember the
demand for compute, not just in AI, but
obviously almost more importantly in in
old school um you know SAS or other
applications continues to outstrip
demand, right? So, so you have
tremendous demand uh for for the
computational power of the storage and
you don't have enough supply yet. So
trying to extrapolate in the near term
that that some struggle at open AAI
would lead to some circular backwash is
hard. We could see 27 and 28. By then if
there's not an AI or IC, it's going to
get a little bit tricky in terms of
forward capex budgets. Do you think that
data centers are a good place to keep
investing in or do you think that there
needs to be a catch-up trade with some
of the energy sector as well from a
private investment perspective?
>> So look everything all the analysis our
team does and we're a much smaller
player roughly 2 billion in assets is
that for demand particularly in
situations that are funded by
hyperscalers where you have that
recurring revenue that free cash flow
look very attractive. The comparison I
always use is if you look at senior
secured commercial real estate lending
versus the senior part of the capital
structure in um data centers, you get an
extra 50 to 70 basis points of pickup in
hospitality for instance. However, once
you move down into mez and equity, given
where we are in a real estate cycle, you
argue have more upside the next several
years in in the digital space.
>> But to Lisa's point, is there a mismatch
potentially for the energy that is
needed to run these data centers that
could potentially hold the story back?
>> Well, it's a great point. So I think big
picture this is back to demand
outstripping supply. Right? So when we
look at one of the risks to GDP growth
this year it's less about on the demand
side and more about can you actually
construct enough right? Do you have
enough copper? Do you have the political
will? I mean the other day Bernie
Sanders and Ronda Santis agreeing on
like constraining like how often do you
see that? Right? So there are there are
more challenges on the supply side, less
challenges in the near-term on the
demand side. And so that tends to bode
well for investments at least over the
short to intermediate term.
>> Do you think that's going to enforce
discipline on these players and stop
them from spending loads? I think
Michael Seblas of JP Morgan asset
management talked about this recently.
I've got copper through 13K. The
electricity needs that Lisa talked about
the social putback push back as well
that so-called gating. How much of a
disciplinary effect will that have on
these spenders?
Well, as of now, you know, given the
size of the budgets, it it it looks like
the spending side is set. Um, again,
it's more on the supply side. So, I I
wouldn't expect until 2728. Remember,
the key factor here is [snorts] when
will the ROIC for AI really show up in
the real economy. Um, not in search, not
in Gemini, etc., but in the real
economy, everyone for the time being is
willing to spend.
>> When you said the real economy, what do
you mean? Just explain that. Well, so
one of the one of our uh kind of small
trades in our multi strategy fund for
instance is trying to find players in in
broader industries, medicine, um you
know, chemicals, energy, uh
infrastructure, etc. where you can
actually use these tools to meaningfully
produce or boost productivity growth.
That's starting to show evidence, but
it's unclear if it's enough to drive the
continued growth of spending. Right?
Right. And so what I'm talking about
here is you think of a flatlining in
spending call it 27 28 that will be fine
for broader markets. We'll have a
multiple correction multiple compression
hyperscaler multiples will come down but
it'll be very very challenging if not
catastrophic for hardware. So you know
when you step back whether it's public
markets or private markets I think the
key in your portfolio is to have enough
exposure to the AI trend that it can
move the needle but not so much that it
causes significant damage if it peters
out. We can turn to the debt markets.
Just seen this headline cross on a
Blindberg terminal. Broadcom, fourpart
deaf offering coming from that company,
Lisa, just crossing the terminal moments
ago.
>> Yeah. And I wonder how much of it's
going to be a 50-year trunch considering
what we saw from uh some previous ones.
It is interesting to see all the debt
that is coming to market and the fact
that it has been received so well. It
has been in the public markets now
following onto the private market
financing. They do have a 30-year tunch.
Uh I don't see a 50-year trunch, but you
know what? Who's next, right? This isn't
over.
>> It's a new story, isn't it? It's a new
shift. There's a different character to
all of this. And I think it started
coming out of summer. We moved away from
using cash flow and we started to move
to the debt story. I'm not talking about
broadcast. I'm talking about what's
happened with the oracles of this world
towards the end of last year.
>> Yeah. And it is a different proposition
for the oracles of the world which
doesn't have profit. But when you have
the Google or Amazon, it's a very
different story. I think that it was
Torson Slack who said that in 2024 7% of
total investment grade issuance came
from the tech sector. It was 14% last
year and it came just in a couple of
months all at once.
>> Amazing. Troy, do you miss talking about
Bitcoin and public equities? Do you miss
any of that?
>> Uh, not really. [laughter]
>> Just asking
and on that topic if I may to private
equity.
>> So, of course, yeah,
>> why not? [laughter] Why not? Right. So,
so, so if you think of the AI, one of
the nice things you can find are other
sectors with tremendous growth in
healthcare. And it's not because of my
engineering background. We're very
excited about uh robotic surgery,
[snorts] infusion care, not maybe as
juicy as AI has been the last two to
three years, but very good upside and
limited downside.
>> Well done for squeezing in that extra
strike. [laughter]
>> Thank you for a feature standard. Coming
up tomorrow, Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth, George Saravevel of Deutsche
Bank, Gaki Chowry of Black Rockck, and
Keith Lerner of Truist from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Have a
wonderful day. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]